Scripture Examples.

Names of God.

1.  Adonai (Lord, Master)
2.  El Elyon (The Most High God)
3.  El Olam (The Everlasting God)
4.  El Shaddai (Lord God Almighty)
5.  Elohim (God)
6.  Jehovah Jireh (The Lord Will Provide)
7.  Jehovah Mekoddishkem (The Lord Who Sanctifies You)
8.  Jehovah Nissi (The Lord My Banner)
9.  Jehovah Rapha (The Lord That Heals)
10. Jehovah Sabaoth (The Lord of Hosts)
11. Jehovah Shalom (The Lord Is Peace)
12. Jehovah Shammah (The Lord Is There)
13. Jehovah Tsidkenu (The Lord Our Righteousness)
14. Jehovah-Raah (The Lord My Shepherd)
15. Qanna (Jealous)
16. Yahweh (Lord, Jehovah)

Model Prayer.

Luke 11:1-4. And it came to pass, that, as he was praying in a
certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto
him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.
And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art
in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be
done, as in heaven, so in earth. Give us day by day our daily
bread. And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one
that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but
deliver us from evil.

Matthew 6:5-15. And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the
hypocrites are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues
and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men.
Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. But thou, when
thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy
door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father
which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. But when ye
pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for they
think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not
ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things
ye have need of, before ye ask him. After this manner therefore
pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts, as
we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but
deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power,
and the glory, for ever. Amen.

