Help From On High.

O You who are King of kings and Lord of lords, we worship You.

Before Jehovah's awful throne, we bow with sacred joy.

We can truly say that we delight in You our God. There was a time
when we feared You, O Lord, with the fear of bondage. Now we
reverence, but we love as much as we reverence. The thought of Your
omnipresence was once horrible to us. We said, "Where can we flee
from His presence?" and it seemed to make hell itself more
dreadful, because we heard a voice, "Even if I make my bed in hell,
behold, You are there." But now, O Lord, we desire to find You. Our
longing is to feel Your presence and it is the heaven of heavens
that You are there. The sick bed is soft when You are there. The
furnace of affliction grows cool when You are there and the house of
prayer, when You are present, is none other than Your house oh God
and it is the very gate of heaven.

Come near, our Father, come very near to Your children. Some of us
are very weak in body and faint in heart. Soon, O God, lay Your
right hand upon us and say unto us, "Fear not." Perhaps, some of
us are alike and the world is attracting us. Come near to kill the
influence of the world with Your superior power.

Even to worship may not seem easy to some of us. The dragon seems to
pursue us and floods out of his mouth fire that impedes our
devotion. Give to us great wings like an eagle, that each Christian
here may fly away into the that resting place You prepared for them.
Help us rest in Your presence today, Lord Jesus.

Our Father, come and give rest to Your children now. Take the helmet
from our brow, remove from us the weight of our heavy armor for
a while, so we may just have peace, perfect peace, and be at rest.
Oh! help us, we pray You, come now and lets us feel the ever
presence of Your Holy Spirit. As You have already washed Your people
in the fountain filled with the blood of Christ and we are clean,
now this morning wash us from defilement in the water. With the
basin and with the pitcher, O Master, wash our feet again. It will
greatly refresh us. It will prepare us for innermost fellowship with
Yourself. So did the priests wash before they went into the holy
place.

Lord Jesus, take from us now everything that would hinder the
closest communion with You. Any wish or desire that might hamper us
in prayer remove, we pray You. Any memory of either sorrow or care
that might hinder the fixing of our affection wholly on You our God,
take it away now. What have we to do with idols anymore? You have
seen and observed us. You know where the difficulty lies. Help us
against it and may we now come boldly, not into the Holy place
alone, but into the Holiest of all, where we should not dare to come
if our great Lord Jesus Christ had not rent the veil, sprinkled the
mercy seat with His own blood and invited us enter.

Now, we have come close to Yourself, to the light that shines
between the wings of the cherubim, and we speak with You now as a
man speaks with his friends. Our God, we are Yours. You are ours. We
are now concerned in one business --- we are leagued together for
one battle. Your battle is our battle, and our fight is Your fight.
Help us, we pray You. You who did strengthen Michael and his angels
to cast out the dragon and his angels, help poor flesh and blood
that to us also the word may be fulfilled, "The Lord will bruise
Satan under your feet shortly."

Our Father, we are very weak. Worst of all we are very, very wicked
if left to ourselves and we soon we will fall a prey to the enemy.
Therefore, help us. We confess that sometimes in prayer when we are
nearest to You at that very time some evil thought comes in, some
wicked desire. Oh! what poor simpletons we are. Lord, help us. We
feel as if we would now come closer to You still and hide under the
shadow of Your wings. We wish to be lost in You our God. We pray
that You may live in us, and not that we live, but Christ lives in
us and shows Himself in us and through us.

Lord, sanctify us. Oh! that Your Holy Spirit might come and saturate
every faculty, subdue every passion, and use every power of our
nature for obedience to You oh God.

Come, Holy Spirit, we do know You. You have often overshadowed us.
Come and more fully take possession of us. Standing even now as we
feel we are, right up at the Mercy Seat, our very highest prayer is
for perfect holiness, complete consecration, entire cleansing from
every evil. Take our heart, our head, our hands, our feet, and use
us all for You. Lord, take our substance, let us not hoard it for
ourselves, nor spend it for ourselves. Take our talent, let us not
try to educate ourselves that we may have the repute of being wise,
but let every gain of mental attainment be still that we may serve
You better.

May every breath be for You, may every minute be spent for You. Help
us to live while we live, and while we are busy in the world as we
must be, for we are called to it, may we sanctify the world for Your
service. May we be lumps of salt in the midst of society. May our
spirit and temper as well as our conversation be heavenly. May there
be an influence about us that will make the world the better before
we leave it. Lord, hear us in this thing.

And now that we have Your ear, we would pray for this poor world in
which we live. We are often horrified by it. O, Lord, we could wish
that we did not know anything about it for our own comfort. We have
said, "Oh! for a lodge in some vast wilderness." We hear of
oppression and robbery and murder, and men seem let loose against
each other. Lord, have mercy upon this great and yet wicked city.
What is to be done with these thousands upon thousands of souls?
What can we do? At least help every Christian child of Yours to do
their utmost. May none of us contribute to the evil directly or
indirectly, but may we contribute to the good that is in it.

We feel we may speak with You now about this, for when Your servant
Abraham stood before You and spoke with such wonderful familiarity
to You, he pleaded for Sodom, and we plead for our city. We would
follow the example of the Abraham, the Father of the Faithful, and
pray for all great cities, and indeed for all the nations. Lord, let
Your kingdom come. Send forth Your light and Your truth. Chase that
old dragon from his throne, with all his hellish crew. Oh! that the
day might come when even upon earth the Son of the woman, the
Man-child, should rule the nations, not with a broken staff of wood,
but with an enduring scepter of iron, full of mercy, but full of
power, full of grace, but yet irresistible. Oh! that it might soon
come, the personal advent of our Lord Jesus Christ! We long for the
millennial triumph of His Word.

Until then, O Lord, gird us for the fight and make us to be among
those who overcome, through the blood of the Lamb and through the
word of our testimony because we "love not our lives unto the
death."

We lift our voice to You in prayer, also, for all our dear ones.
Lord, bless the sick and make them well as soon as it is right they
should be. Sanctify to them all they have to bear. There are also
dear friends who are very weak, some that are very trembling. God
bless them. While the tent is being taken down, may the inhabitant
within look on with calm joy, for we will by-and-by "be clothed
upon with our house that is from heaven." Lord, help us to sit too
comfortably by all these things here below. May we live here like
strangers and make the world not a house but an inn, in which we eat
and sleep, expecting to be on our journey tomorrow.

Lord, save the unconverted and bring out, we pray You, from among
them those who are converted, but who have not yet confessed Christ.
May the Church be built up by many who, having believed, are
baptized unto Your sacred name Lord Jesus. We pray You go on and
multiply the faithful in the land. Oh! that You would turn the
hearts of men to the Gospel once more. Your servants are often very
heavy in heart because of the departures from the faith. Oh! Lord
bring them back. Let not Satan take away any more of the stars with
his tail, but may these lumps of God shine bright once more. Oh! You
that walk among the seven golden candlesticks trim the flame, pour
forth the oil, and let the light shine brightly and steadily. Now,
Lord Jesus, we cannot pray any longer, though we have a thousand
things to ask for. Your servants cannot, so we beg to leave our
broken prayers at Your Mercy Seat at the very foot of it, we ask in
the name of Jesus Christ Your Son. Amen.

