Thanks Be Unto God.

O Lord our God, help us now really to worship You. We would thank
You for this occasion. We bless Your name for setting apart this
hallowed season. Lord, will You shut the door upon the world for us?
Help us to forget our cares. Enable us to rise clean out of this
world. May we get rid of all its down-dragging tendencies. May the
attractions of these grossest things be gone and You catch us away
to Yourself.

We do not ask to be entranced nor to see an angel in shining
apparel, but we do ask that by faith we may see Jesus and may His
presence be so evidently realized among us that we may rejoice as
well as if our eyes beheld Him, and love Him and trust Him and
worship Him as earnestly as we should do if we could now put our
fingers into the print of the nails.

Oh, You precious Lord Jesus Christ, we do adore You with all our
hearts. You are Lord of all. We bless You for becoming man that You
might be our next of kin, and being next of kin, we bless You for
taking us into that marriage union with Yourself and for redeeming
us and our inheritance from the captivity into which we were sold.
You have paid Your life for Your people. You have ransomed Your
people with Your heart's blood. You are, therefore, forever beloved
and adored.

And now You are not here for You are risen. Our souls would track
the shining way by which You have ascended through the pearly gate
up to Your Father's throne. We seem to see You sitting there, man,
yet God, reigning over all things for Your people and our ears
almost catch the accents of the everlasting song which rolls up at
Your feet, "Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive honor, and
power, and glory, and dominion, and might forever and ever." Lord,
we say, "Amen." From the outskirts of the crowd that surround Your
throne, we lift our feeble voices in earnest "Amens," for You
were slain and have redeemed us to our Heavenly Father by Your blood
and have made us kings and priests unto the almighty God, and we
will reign with You, for though far off by space, we know that we
are very near to Your heart Lord Jesus.

You look over the heads of the angelic squadrons to behold us and
You hear the praises --- yes, and the groans of Your well-beloved
children, for are not we most near You, Your flesh, and Your bones?
We know we are. We feel the ties of kinship within us. We are Your
best Beloved. You, Lord Jesus, are ours, and we are longing to get
through the crowd that surrounds You, and to get to the forefront,
and there to bow prostrate at Your dear feet that were nailed to the
cross for us, and worship the You, the Lamb that was slain, who
lives forever and ever, who has prevailed to take the book and loose
the seven seals thereof, to You be all glory and honor, world
without end. Hallelujah!

O, Savior, accept these our poor praises. They come from those You
love, and as we prize any little thing that come from those we love,
so do we feel that You will accept the thanksgiving, the reverential
homage of Your people, redeemed ones who are a people near unto You,
whose names are engraved on the palms of Your hands, of whom You are
the active head and for whom Your heart beats true and full of love
even now.

Oh, we can say we love You. We wish we loved You more. You are very
dear to us. There is nothing on earth like You. For the love of Your
name we would live and die. If we think we love You more than we do,
we pray that we may yet love You more than we think. Oh, take our
hearts right away and unite them with Your own, and let Your heart
and soul and life be everything to us. Even though we have loved
ones in heaven, it is You Lord Jesus we love above all. There is
none upon earth we desire beside You.

We worship you Father, we worship you Son, we worship you Holy Ghost
with all the powers of our being. We fall prostrate before Your
awful yet glorious throne of the Infinite Majesty of heaven. Accept
us since we offer these praises in the name of Jesus Christ.

And now most blessed Lord, look down upon those who do not yet love
You. O Redeemer, look upon them with those eyes of Yours which are
as flames of fire. Let them see how ill they treat You. May they
consider within themselves how extreme is the ingratitude which can
be negligent of Your blood, our Savior, indifferent from Your loving
heart. Oh, bring the careless and the godless to seek mercy. Let
those that are postponing serious things begin to see that the very
thought of postponement of the claims of Christ is treason against
Your Majesty. O Savior, dart Your arrows abroad and let them wound
many that they may fall before You and cry out for mercy.

But there are some who are wounded, broken hearts that seek peace
--- men and women, like Cornelius, that want to hear the words which
You our God commands.

Oh, come divine Physician and bind up every broken bone. Come with
Your sacred balm which You have compounded with Your own heart's
blood, and lay it home to the wounded conscience, and let it feel
its power. Oh! give peace to those whose conscience is like the
troubled sea which cannot rest.

O God, our God, let not the teaching of the Sunday school, the
preaching of the evangelists, the personal visitations of
individuals, let not any of these efforts be in vain. Do give
conversions. We groan out this prayer from our very heart, yet can
we also sing it, for You have heard us plenty already, and our heart
rejoices You our God and Savior who works so graciously among the
children of men.

We have been astonished as the Holy Ghost has fallen even upon the
chief of sinners, and men afar off from God have been brought in.
But, Lord, do more of this among us. Let us see greater things than
these. Where we have had one saved by Your power, let us have a
hundred to the praise of Your glorious name Lord Jesus.

Lord, keep us all from sin. Teach us how to walk circumspectly.
Enable us to guard our minds against error of doctrine, our hearts
against wrong feelings, and our lives against evil actions. Oh, may
we never speak unadvisedly with our lips, nor give way to anger.
Above all, keep us from covetousness which is idolatry and from
malice which is of the devil. Grant unto us to be full of sweetness
and light. May love dwell in us and reign in us. May we look not
every man on his own things, but every man on the things of others.
Help us to live for Your Lord Jesus. There is no life like it. Help
us to be Christ-like men and women, Christians, and may we in all
things reflect the light which we receive from You.

Bless our Church and all its organizations. O God, take care of it.
Oh! make every member of the Church a pastor over others. Let us
strive together for the good of all and so may Your kingdom come
among us.

And do prosper all the Christian churches. What we ask for ourselves
we seek for them. Let missionaries especially be helped by Your Holy
Spirit and may there come a day in which the minds of men may be
better prepared to receive the Gospel, and may Messiah's kingdom
come to the overthrow of her that sits on the Seven Hills, and to
the eternal waning of Mohammed's moon, to the overthrow of every
idol, that Jesus Christ alone may reign. Our whole heart comes out
in this. Reign, Immanuel, reign. Sit on the high throne. Ride on
Your white house and let the armies of heaven follow You, conquering
and to conquer. Come, Lord Jesus, even so, come quickly. Amen and
amen.

