The Love Without Measure Or End.

Lord, we would come to You, but please, You come to us. Draw us but
a little and we will run after You. Blessed Holy Spirit, help our
infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought.
Come, Holy Spirit, and give right thoughts and right utterance that
we may all be able to pray in public, common prayer, so all of us
feel for each of us there is an individual portion. We are grateful
as we remember that if the minister in the sanctuary should not be
able to pray for any one of us, we still have You, Lord Jesus, who
bears the names of all Your redeemed upon Your breast and upon Your
shoulder, who will take care with the love of Your heart and the
power of Your hand to maintain the cause of all on Your own.

Dear Savior, we put ourselves under Your sacred patronage. Advocate
with the Father, plead for us this day, yes, make intercession for
the transgressors. We desire to praise the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ with our whole heart, as so many of us have tasted that the
You are gracious. Truly You have delivered us from the gulf of dark
despair, where we wretched sinners lay. You have brought us up also
out of the horrible pit and out of the miry clay. You have set our
feet upon a rock and the new song which You have put into our mouths
we would not stifle, but we would bless You Lord Jesus whose mercy
endures forever.

We thank You, Lord, for the love without beginning which chose us
before the earth was, for the love without measure which entered
into covenant for our redemption, for the love without failure which
in due time appeared in You Lord Jesus, the Christ, our Savior, and
wrought out our redemption, with that love which has never changed,
though we have wandered, that love which abides faithful even when
we are unfaithful.

O God, we praise You for keeping us till this day and for the full
assurance that You will never let us go. Some can say, "He
restoreth my soul," but they had wandered, wandered sadly, but You
have brought them back again. Lord, keep us from wandering, then
will we sing, "Unto Him that is able to keep us from stumbling and
to present us faultless before His presence with exceeding joy."
Bless You Oh Lord, our inmost soul blesses the and exalts the name
of the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Spirit, the Triune. Blessed be the Lord forever. Bless the
office sustained by each divine person. Blessed be that divine
blessing which has come streaming down to us through each one of
those, condescending titles worn by the Father, Son, and the Holy
Spirit.

We feel like singing all the time. We would take down our harp from
the willows, if we had hung it there, and we would waken every
string to the sweetest melody of praise unto You, our Lord and our
God. Yet, Lord, we cannot close with praise, for we are obliged to
come before You with humble confession of sin. We are not worthy of
the least of all these favors. We cannot say, "He is worthy for
whom You should do this thing." No. But we are altogether unworthy
and Your gifts are according to the riches of Your grace, for which
again, we praise You.

Lord, forgive us all our sin. May Your pardoned ones have a renewed
sense of their acceptance in the Beloved. If any cloud has arisen to
hide You from any believing eye, take that cloud away. If in our
march through this world, so full of mire as it is, we have any spot
on us, dear Savior, wash our feet with that blessed footbath and
then say to us, "Ye are clean through and through." May we know it
so, that there is no condemnation, no separation, sin is removed as
to its separating as well as its destroying power, and may we enter
into full fellowship with You oh God. May we walk in the light as
You our God is in the light and have fellowship with You, while the
blood of Jesus Christ, Your Son, cleanses us from all sin. Let no
child of Yours have any dead work upon his conscience and may our
conscience be purged from dead works to serve You, the living and
true God.

And oh! if there are any that after having made the profession of
religion have gone astray by any form of sin, Lord, restore them. If
they have fallen into addiction, if they have fallen into moral
impurity, if they have fallen into dishonesty, if, in any way, they
have stained their garments, oh! that Your mighty grace might bring
them back and put them yet among the children. But give them not up,
set them not as Admah, make them not as Zeboim, but let Your
repenting be kindled and Your compassion be moved for them, and let
them also be moved, and may they return with weeping and with
supplication and find You a God ready to pardon.

Furthermore, we ask of You, our Father, this day to perfect Your
work within our hearts. We are saved, but we would be saved from sin
of every form and degree --- from sins that lie within, and we are
scarcely aware that they are there. If we have any pride of which we
are not conscious, any unbelief of which we are not aware, if there
is a clinging to the creature, a form of idolatry which we have not
yet perceived, we pray You, Lord, to search us as with candles till
You spy out the evil and then put it away. We are not satisfied with
pardoned sin, "We pray, create in us a clean heart, O God, and
renew a right spirit within me." Help us in our daily life, in our
families, in our relations as husbands or wives, parents or
children, employers, or employees, in our business transactions with
our fellow men, in our dealings with the Church of God, may we be
true, upright, pure, kept from the great transgression because we
are kept from the minor.

Oh! that we may be such as glorify Christ. Save us, we pray You,
from what passes as religion. Give us the peculiar grace of a
peculiar people. May we abide in You Christ Jesus. May we live near
to Your our God. Let not the frivolities of the world have any power
over us whatever. May we be too full grown in grace to be bewitched
with the toys which are only becoming in children. Oh! give us to
serve You and especially, and this prayer we have already prayed but
we pray it again, make us useful in the salvation of our neighbors.
O Lord, have we lived so long in the world and yet are our children
unconverted? May we never rest until they are truly saved. Oh Lord,
have we been going up and down in business and are those round about
us yet unaware of our Christian character? Have we never spoken
to them the Word of Life? Lord, arouse us to a deep concern for all
with whom we come in contact from day to day. Make us all
missionaries at home or in the street, or in our workshop, wherever
Providence has cast our lot, may we there shine as lights in the
world.

Lord, keep us right, true in doctrine, true in experience, true in
life, true in word, true in deed. Let us have an intense agony of
spirit concerning the many who are going down to the everlasting
fire of which you described. Lord, save them! Lord, save them! Stop,
we pray You, the torrents of sin that run down the streets of our
city, purge the dead sea of sin, in which so many of the citizens
are lying soaked. Oh Lord! We long for that the day when the name of
Jesus becomes a household word, when everybody knows of Your love,
and of Your death, and of Your blood shed on our behalf, and of its
cleansing power. Lord, save men, gather up the company of redeemed
people. Let those who the Father gave to You Lord Jesus be brought
out from among the ruins of the fall to be Your joy and crown. "Let
the people praise You, O God, yes, let all the people praise You."
Let the ends of the earth fear and reverence You who died to save
them. Let the whole earth be filled with Your glory oh God.

This is our great prayer, and we crown it with this, Come, Lord
Jesus, come Lord and tarry not. Come in the fullness of Your power
and the splendor of Your glory! Come quickly, even so come quickly,
Lord Jesus. Amen.

