The All Prevailing Plea.

O Lord God! the Fountain of all fullness, we, who are nothing but
emptiness, come unto You for all supplies, nor will we come in vain,
since we bear with us a plea which is all prevalent. Since we come
commanded by Your Word, encouraged by Your promise, and preceded by
Christ Jesus, our great High Priest, we know that whatsoever we
will ask in prayer, believing, we will receive. Only do You help
us now to ask right things and may the utterances of our mouth be
acceptable in Your sight, O God our Strength and our Redeemer.

We would first adore Your blessed and ever-to-be-beloved Name. "All
the earth worships You, the Father everlasting." Heaven is full of
Your glory. Oh! that the people's hearts were filled, that the
noblest creatures You made, that You set in Paradise. That You sent
your Son, our Savior, to shed His blood, would love You love, each
and everyone, with all their hearts.

The faithful, chosen, called, and separated, join in the everlasting
song. All Your redeemed praise You, O God! As the God of our
election, we praise You for Your everlasting and immutable love. As
the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we bless You for that
unspeakable gift, the offering of Your Only begotten. Words are but
air, and tongues but clay, but Your compassion is divine, therefore
it is not possible that any words of ours should "reach the height
of this great argument" or sound forth Your worthy praise for this
superlative deed of grace.

We bless You, also, divine Son of God, co-equal and co-eternal with
the Father, that You did not disdain to be born of the Virgin, and
that, being found in fashion like a man, You did not refuse to be
obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Let Your brows
adorned with something better than thorns. Let the eternal diadem
forever glitter there. You were slain and have redeemed us to God by
Your blood. Unto You be glory, and honor, and power, and majesty,
and dominion, and might, forever and ever!

And equally, most blessed Spirit, You who did hover over chaos and
bring it into order, You who did bring about the Son of God's body
of flesh, You who did quicken us to spiritual life, by whose divine
energy we are sanctified and hope to be made meet to be partakers of
the inheritance of the saints in light, unto You, also, be
hallelujahs, world without end!

O Lord! our soul longs for words of fire, but we cannot reach them!
Oh! when will we drop this clay which now is so disagreeable to our
song? When will we be able with wings to mount upward to Your
throne, and having learned some flaming sonnets that have once been
sung by cherubim above, we will praise You forever?

Yet even these are not rich enough for Your glory. We would sing
unto You a new song. We will, when we reach that heavenly shore,
become leaders of the eternal music. "Day without night" will we
"circle Your throne rejoicing," and count it the fullness of our
glory, our bliss, our heaven, to wave the palm, and cast our crowns
with our songs at Your feet forever and ever!

Our Father in heaven, next to this we would offer prayer for those
who never think of You, who, though created by You, are strangers to
You, who are fed by Your bounty and yet never lift their voices to
You, but live for their selves, for this world, for Satan, for sin.
Father, these people cannot pray for themselves for they are dead.
Help Your quickened children pray for them as we ought. These will
not come to You, for, like sheep, they are lost, but do You seek
them, Father, and bring them back.

Oh! our glorious Lord, You have taught us to pray for others, for
the grace which could have met with such undeserving sinners as we
are, must be able to meet with the vilest of the vile. Oh! we cannot
boast of what we are. We cannot boast of what we have been by
nature. Had we our just reward, we would be even now in hell. Had we
this day our proper, natural, and deserved position, we should still
have been in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity. Its
Your rich, free, sovereign, distinguishing grace which has brought
us up out of the miry clay and set our feet upon a rock. And will we
refuse to pray for others? will we leave one stone unturned for
their conversion? will we not weep for those who have no tears and
cry for those who have no prayers? Father, help us. We must and we
will.

There are those who are utterly careless about divine things. Will
You impress them! May some stray shot reach their conscience! Oh!
that they may be led to seriously consider their position and their
ultimate end! May thoughts of death and eternity dash like some
mighty waves, irresistibly against their souls! Oh! may heaven's
light shine into their conscience! May they begin to ask themselves,
where they are, and what they are, and may they be turned unto You
oh Lord with full purpose of heart.

There are others who are concerned, but they are halting between two
opinions. There are some that we love in the flesh who have not yet
decided for God. See their soul trembles in the balance! Cast in
Your cross, O Jesus, and tilt the scale in Your kingdom's favor!
Oh! Love irresistible, come, and carry by storm the hearts which have
not yet yielded to all the attacks of the law! Oh! that some who
never could be melted, even by the furnace of Sinai, may be
dissolved by the beams of love from Your tearful and loving eyes!

Lord, Lord, if there be any heart that is saying, "I yield. I lay
down my rebellion's weapons at your feet and cease to be Your
enemy. You are the King of kings" --- if there be one who is
saying, "I am willing to be adopted by Christ, to be washed in His
blood, to be called in His righteousness" --- bring that willing
sinner in now! May there be no more delay, but may this be the time
when, once for all, the great transaction will be done and they
will be Yours Lord and You will be theirs.

Oh! that we could pour out our soul in prayer for the unconverted!
You know where they will all be in a few years! Oh! by Your wrath,
we pray You, let them not endure it! By the flames of hell, be
pleased to ransom them from going down into the pit! By everything
that is dreadful in the wrath to come, we do argue with You to have
mercy upon these citizens of earth, even upon those who have no
mercy upon themselves. Father, have You not promised Your Son to see
of His soul's travail? We point You to the ransom paid. We point
You once again to the groans of Your Son, to His agony, and bloody
sweat! Turn, turn Your glorious eyes our city, and then look on
sinners and speak the word and ask them to live. Righteous Father,
refresh every corner of the vineyard and on every branch of the vine
let the dew of heaven rest. Oh! that You would bless Your Church
throughout the world! Let visible union be established, or if not
that, yet let the invisible union which has always existed be better
recognized by believers. Will You repair our schisms? Will You
repair the breaches which have been made in the walls of Zion? Oh!
that You would purge us of everything unscriptural, until all
Christians come to the law and to the testimony, and still keep the
ordinances and the doctrines as they were committed to the apostles
by Christ!

Remember our land in this time of need. Could by some means would
you provide some mercy and means relieve the distress so
prevalent in our nation. Quicken the wheels of commerce that the
many who are out of employment in this city may no longer be crying
for work. Oh! that You would make wars to cease to the ends of the
earth, or when they break out, You break the chains of hatred, and
though desperate be the evil of our day, grant us that Satan may
cast out Satan and may his kingdom be divided and fall.

Above all, You long-expected Messiah, do You come! Your ancient
people who despised You once are waiting for You in Your second
coming, and we, the Gentiles, who knew You not, neither regarded
You, we too are watching for Your advent. Make no tarrying, O Jesus!
May Your feet soon stand again on Olives! You will not have this
time there to sweat great drops of blood, but You will come to
proclaim the year of vengeance for Your foes and the year of
acceptance for Your people.

The earth travails for Your coming. The whole creation groans in
pain together until now. Your own expect You. We are longing until
we are weary for Your coming. Come quickly, Lord Jesus, come
quickly. Amen.

