To The King Eternal.

Our God and Father, draw us to Yourself by Your Spirit and may the
few minutes that we spend in prayer be full of the true spirit of
supplication. Grant that none of us with closed eyes may yet be
looking abroad over the fields of this world's concerns and vanity,
but may our eyes be really shut to everything else now but that
which is spiritual and divine. May we have communion with You oh
Lord Jesus in the secret places of our hearts and find You to be
unto us a little sanctuary.

O Lord, we do not find it easy to get rid of distracting thoughts,
but we pray You help us to draw the sword against them and drive
them away, and as when the birds came down upon his sacrifice
Abraham drove them away, so may we chase away all cares, all
thoughts of earthly pleasures, everything else, whether it be
pleasing or painful, that would keep us away from real fellowship
with the You our Father and our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

We would begin with adoration. We worship from our hearts the Three
in One, the infinitely glorious Jehovah, the only living and true
God. We adore the You Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, the God of
Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob. We are not yet ascended to the
place where pure spirits behold Your face of God, but we will soon
be there, perhaps much sooner than we think, and we would be there
in spirit now, casting our crowns upon the glassy sea before the
throne of Your Infinite Majesty and ascribe all glory, honor, power,
praise, and dominion to You that sits on the throne and unto the
Lamb forever and ever.

Let all the Church worship You, O God. Let every heart renewed by
grace takes a delight in adoring You, and we, among the rest, though
least and insignificant of them all, would bow as enthusiastically
as any of those worshiping, loving, praising in our soul, with
silence or with shouts unto You our God because our joy in Christ is
altogether inexpressible.

Lord, help us to worship You in life as well as lip. May our whole
being be taken up with You. As when the fire fell on Elijah's
sacrifice of old and lapped up all the water that was in the
trenches, so may the consuming fire of the divine Spirit use up all
our nature, and even that which might seem to hinder us in worship,
even out of that may God get glory by the removal of it. In this we
adore You.

But, oh! dear Savior, we come to You and we remember what our state
is, and the condition we are in encourages us to come to You now as
beggars, as dependents upon Your heavenly charity. You are a Savior
and as such You are on the outlook for those that need saving, and
here we are, here we come. We are the men and women You are looking
for, either needing a Savior or ready to serve.

Great Physician, we bring You our wounds, bruises, pain,
infirmities, and sores. The more diseased we are the more conscious
we are today of how this world has fallen, the depravity of our
nature, the deep-seated corruption of our hearts. We feel more and
more that we are the sort of beings that You are seeking for, for
You said the well have no need of a physician, but those that are
sick.

Glorious Benefactor, we can meet You on the best of terms. We are
full of poverty. We are just as empty as we can be. We could not be
more abjectly dependent than we are at this moment. Since You want
to display Your mercy, here is our sin. Since You want to show Your
strength, here is our weakness. Since You want to manifest Your
loving kindness, here are our needs. Since You want to glorify Your
grace, here are we, such persons as can never have a shadow of a
hope except through Your grace, for we are undeserving,
ill-deserving, hell-deserving, and if You do not magnify Your grace
in us, we must perish forever.

And somehow, we feel it relieved to come to You in this way. If we
had to tell You that we had some good thing in us which You did
require of us, we should be questioning whether we were not
flattering ourselves and presumptuously thinking that we were better
than we are. Lord Jesus, we come just as we are. This is how we came
at first, and this is how we come still, with all our failures, with
all our transgressions, with all and everything that is what it
ought not to be, we come to You. We do bless You that You receive us
and our wounds. By Your stripes we are healed. You receive us and
our sins, and by Your sin-bearing we are set clear and free from
sin. You receive us and our death, even our death, for You are He
that lives and was dead and are alive forevermore.

We just come and lie prostrate at Your feet, obedient to that call
when You said, "Come unto Me all ye that labor and I will give you
rest." Let us feel that peace that the world cannot understand.
Give us rest since we answered Your call. May some come that have
never come till this day, and may others who have been coming these
many years, consciously come again, and come to You as unto a living
stone, chosen by God the Father as the precious One, to build our
everlasting hopes upon.

But, Lord, now that we are come so near You and on right terms with
You, we venture to ask You this, that we that love You may love You
very much more. Oh! since You have been precious, Your very name has
music in it to our ears, and there are times when Your love is so
inexpressibly strong on us that we are carried away with it. We have
felt that we would gladly die to increase Your honor. We have been
willing to lose our name and our repute so You might be
glorified, and truly we often feel that if the crushing of us would
lift You one inch the higher, we would gladly suffer it.

For You are our blessed King. We see the crown on Your head. Though
we get wounded in battle, You must be King no matter what becomes of
us. You must be glorified regardless of our circumstances.

But yet we have to mourn that we cannot always get to feel as we
should. This rapture and outpouring of Your love. Oh! at times You
manifest Yourself to us so affectionately that heaven itself could
hardly be happier than what the world becomes when You are with us
in it. Oh but we are in the dark and can't seem to find You, give
us that love in the darkness. Give us that love when there is no
comfortable sense of Your presence. Let us not be dependent upon
feeling, but may we ever love You, so that if You did turn Your back
on us by the year together, we would think none the less of You, for
You are unspeakably to be beloved whatsoever You do, and if You
give us rough words, yet still we would cling to You, and if
the rod be used till we tingle again, yet still will we love You,
for You are infinitely to be beloved of men and of angels, and Your
Father loved You and exalted You and given all power to You. Make
our hearts to love You evermore the same. With all the capacity for
love that there is in us, and with all the more that You can give
us, help us to love You in spirit and in truth.

Help us, Lord, to conquer sin out of love to You. Help some dear
struggler that has been mastered by sin sometimes, and they are
struggling against it. Give them the victory, Lord, and when the
battle gets very sharp, and they are tempted to give way a little,
help them to be very firm and very strong, never giving up hope in
You Lord Jesus. Give us the resolve that if we perish, we will perish
at Your feet and nowhere else but there.

Lord, raise up in our churches many men and women that are all on
fire with love for You and Your divine Gospel. Oh! give us back
again, men like Antipas, Your faithful martyr. Men like Paul, Your
earnest servant who proclaimed Your truth so boldly. Give us Johns.
Men to whom the Spirit may speak, who will help us to hear what the
Spirit saith unto the churches. Women like Lydia, Lois, Junia,
Phoebe, Persis, and Priscilla Lord. Revive us! Revive us Lord Jesus!
Revive Your work during these years in all the churches.
Return to the Church in power throughout this country. Return unto
her. Your adversaries think to have it all their own way, but we
know they do not, for You Lord live in us. You are our blessed rock
of salvation.

Because of truth and righteousness, we ask You to lay bare Your arm
in these last days. O Shepherd of Israel, deal a heavy blow at the
wolves and keep Your sheep in their own true pastures, free from the
poisonous pastures of error. O God, we want to see You stirred up.
We know You do not sleep, and yet sometimes it seems as if You do
when to go on in their own way. Help us to see Your hand, awake and
pleading Your own cause. We know Your say, "Awake! Awake! Put on
thy strength, O Zion." This we would do, Lord, but we cannot do it
unless You put forth Your strength to turn our weakness into might.

Great God, save this nation! O God of heaven and earth, stop the
floods of infidelity and of filthiness that roll over this land. We
ask your intervention that we might see better days! Men and women
seem entirely indifferent now. They will not come to hear the Word
as once they did. God of our fathers, let Your Spirit work again
among the masses. Turn the hearts of the people to the hearing of
the Word and convert them when they hear it. May it be preached with
power the Holy Spirit sent down from heaven.

Our hearts are weary for You, our King, You are a King forgotten in
Your own land. You are a King despised among Your own people. When
will You appear and be glorious before the eyes of all the people of
the earth? Come Lord Jesus. We beg You, come quickly, or if You
tarry your coming, send forth the Holy Spirit with a greater power
than ever such that our hearts leap within us as we see miracles of
mercy repeatedly spread in our midst.

Father, glorify Your Son. Somehow our prayer always comes to this
before we are done. "Father, glorify Your Son that Your Son also
may glorify You," and let the days come when He will see of the
travail of His soul and will be satisfied. Bless all work done for
You, whether it be in the city or in the cathedral, silently and
quietly at the street door, or in the Sunday school and classes, O
Lord, bless Your work. Also hear prayers that have been put up by
wives for their husbands, children for their parents, parents for
their children. Let the holy service of prayer never cease and let
the intercession be accepted by you oh God, for Jesus Christ's
sake. Amen.

