The Wonders Of Calvary.

Great God, there was a time when we dreaded the thought of coming
near to You, for we were guilty, and You were angry with us, but now
we will praise You because Your anger is turned away and You comfort
us. Yes, and the very throne which once was a place of dread has now
become the place of shelter. We flee to You for safety.

We long now to get away from the world, even from the remembrance of
it to have fellowship with You who was, and is, and is to come,
Almighty God. Lord, we have been worried and wearied often with
care, but with You our care comes to an end. All things are with
You. When we live in You, we live in wealth, in rest, and constant
joy.

We have to battle with the sons of men against a thousand errors and
unrighteousnesses. But when we flee to You, there all is truth and
purity and holiness, and our heart finds peace. Above all, we have
to battle with ourselves and we are very much ashamed of ourselves.
After many years of great mercy, after tasting of the powers of the
world to come, we still are so weak, so foolish. But when we get
away from ourselves to You oh God, there is truth and purity and
holiness and our heart finds peace, wisdom, completeness, delight,
joy, victory in your Son Jesus Christ.

Oh! bring us, then, we pray You, now near to Yourself. Let us bathe
ourselves in communion with You our Lord and friend. Bless be the
love which chose us before the world began. We can never
sufficiently adore You for Your sovereignty, the sovereignty of love
which saw us in the ruins of the Fall, yet loved us anyway.

We praise the God of the Eternal Council Chamber and of the
Everlasting Covenant, but where can we find sufficient words with
which to praise You who gave us grace in Jesus Christ before You
spread the starry sky. We also bless You, O God, as the God of our
redemption, for You have so loved us as to give even Your dear Son
for us. He gave Himself, His very life for us that He might redeem
us from all iniquity and separate us unto Himself to be His peculiar
people, zealous for good works.

Never can we sufficiently adore free grace and dying love. The
wonders of Calvary never cease to be wonders. They are increasingly
marvelous in our admiration as we think of Him who washed us from
our sins in His own blood. Nor can we cease to praise You, the God
of our regeneration, who found us dead and made us alive, found us
at enmity and reconciled us, found us loving the things of this
world and lifted us out of the junk and mire of selfishness and
worldliness into the love of divine everlasting things.

O Spirit of God, we love You this day, especially for dwelling in
us. How can You abide in such a crude vessel. How can You make these
bodies to be Your temples, and yet You do so, for which, let Your
name be reverenced so long as we live.

O Lord, we would delight ourselves in You this day. Give us faith
and love and hope that with these three graces we may draw very near
to You the Triune God. You will keep us. You will preserve us. You
will feed us. You will lead us. Bring us to Your mind oh God, and
there will You show us Your love, and in the boundless everlasting
glory there, You will make us to know, taste, and feel joys that
cannot be expressed.

But now we must wait a little longer before we come to that golden
shore. But a little longer fighting and we will receive the crown
of life that does not fade away.

Lord, get us up above the world. Come, Holy Spirit, heavenly dove,
and mount and bear us on Your wings, far from these inferior sorrows
and inferior joys, up where eternal ages roll. May we ascend in
joyful contemplation and may our spirit come back again, strong for
all its service, armed for all its battles, armored for all its
dangers, and made ready to live heaven on earth, until by-and-by we
will live heaven in heaven. Great Father, be with Your waiting
people. For those in great trouble, we ask Your help and
deliverance. Those that are despondent, please Father sweetly
comfort and cheer them. For any that have erred and are suffering
under their own sin, bring them back and heal their wounds. For
those that this day that are gasping after holiness, give them the
desire of their hearts. Any that are longing for usefulness, lead
them into ways to be useful.

Lord, we want to live while we live. We pray that we may not merely
groan out an existence here below, nor live as earthworms crawling
back into our holes and dragging now and then a withered leaf with
us, but oh! give us to live as we ought to live, with a new life
that You have put into us, with the divine quickening which has
lifted us as much above common men as men are lifted above the
beasts that perish.

Do not let us always be hampered like poor half-hatched birds within
the egg. May we chip the shell today and get out into the glorious
liberty of the children of God. Grant us this, we pray You.

Lord, visit our church. We have heard Your message to the churches
at Ephesus. It is a message to us also. Oh! do not let any of us
lose our first love. Let not our church grow cold and dead. We are
not, we fear, what once we were. Lord, revive us! All our help must
come from You. Give back to the Church its love, its confidence, its
holy daring, its consecration, its liberality, its holiness. Give
back all it ever had and give it much more. Take every member and
wash their feet, Sweet Lord, most tenderly, and set us with clean
feet in a clean road, with a clean heart to guide us, and bless us
as You are wanting to do after a divine fashion.

Bless us, our Father, and let all the churches of Jesus Christ
partake of like cause and tenderness. Walking among the golden
candlesticks, trim every lamp and make every light, even though it
burns feebly now, make it to shine out gloriously through Your care.

Now bless the sinners. Lord, convert them. O God, save men, save
this great city, this wicked city, this slumbering dead city. Lord,
arouse it, arouse it by any means, that it may turn unto You its
God. Lord, save sinners all the world over and let Your precious
Word be fulfilled. "Behold He cometh with clouds." Why do You
tarry? Tarry no more, O Lord, our Savior. And now unto Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost be glory forever and ever. Amen.

