Let All The People Praise You.

Our Father, when we read Your description of human nature, we are
sure it is true, for You has seen man ever since his fall and You
have been grieved at heart concerning him. Moreover, You have such a
love towards him that You did not judge him harshly and every word
that You have spoken must be according to truth. You have measured
and computed the iniquity of man, for You have laid it on Your
Well-Beloved Son Jesus Christ and we know You have not laid upon Him
more than is required.

O God, we are distressed, we are bowed down greatly when we see what
is the condition to which we and all our race have fallen. "Where
is boasting then?" And yet we grieve to say that we do boast, and
have boasted, and that our fellowmen are great at boasting, whereas
they should lay their hands upon their mouths before You.

It has become a wonder to us that You should look upon us at all.
The most hateful object in creation must be a man because man slew
Your Son because he has multiplied rebellions against a just and
holy law. And yet truly there is no sight that gives You more
pleasure than man, for Jesus was a man and the brightness of His
glory covers all our shame, and the pureness and perfectness of His
obedience shines like the sun during the thick darkness.
For His sake, You are well pleased and You dwell with us.

Lord, we once thought that those descriptions of our heart were
somewhat strained, but we do not think so now, for now we perceive
that had it not been for restraint which held us like chains we, in
our unregenerate state, were capable of anything, for even now when
we are regenerate, the old sin that abides in us is capable of
reaching to a high degree of infamy and did if not this new life
restrains the old death, we do not know what we might yet become.

We once thought we were humble, but we soon found that our pride
feeds on any current flattery that is laid at our door. We thought
we were believers, but sometimes we are so doubting, so unbelieving,
so vexed with skepticism that we certainly would not choose to
follow that which is Your work in us. By nature, we are such liars
that we think You a liar too. The surest token of our
untruthfulness, that we think that You can be untrue.

Oh, this simple heart of ours! Does it not have enough kindling in
it to set on fire the course of nature? If a spark does but fall
into it, any one of our members left to itself would dishonor
Christ, deny the Lord that bought us, and turn back into perdition.

We are altogether ashamed. Truly in us is fulfilled Your own Word,
"You shalt be a shame and never open thy mouth anymore." For Your
love to us has silenced us, that great love has hidden boasting from
us. Your great love, wherewith You loved us, even when we were dead
in trespasses and sins. Your great love wherein You loved us still,
despite our ill manners, our wanderings, our shortcomings, and our
excesses.

Oh, Your matchless love oh God! Truly if there be any glory it must
be all Yours. If there be any virtue, it is the result of Your
grace. If there be anything whatsoever that lifts us above the devil
himself, it is the work of the divine Spirit, to whom be glory!

And now as we remember all of this, and being in Your presence, we
rejoice that You covered our unrighteousness, we are free from
condemnation, and we now favored by You oh Lord. You have given us a
taste of that love, which is not merely laid up for us, but we have
enjoyed it and do enjoy it still.

Our heart knows Your love as our Heavenly Father, for we have
received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, "Abba Father."
And we rejoice in the redemption of our spirits, and we expect the
redemption of our bodies, when at the coming of the Lord Jesus
Christ they too will be raised incorruptible, and we will be
changed in a twinkling of an eye.

O Jesus, bring us Your Israel out of Egypt and leave not a hoof
behind. No, not a bone, nor a piece of Your elect left in the hands
of the adversary. We will come out clean, delivered by Him who does
nothing by part, but who on the cross said, "It is finished." You
who will say it even more on Your throne. Glory be unto Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost, who lifted us up from our ruin and condemnation, and
made us new creatures and justified us, and guaranteed us eternal
life, which eternal life will be manifested at Your second coming
oh Lord Jesus. All glory be to Your ever blessed name forever and
ever!

And now, Lord, during the few days that remain to us here below, be
it all our business to cry, "Behold the Lamb!" Oh! teach these
hearts to be always conscious of Your love and then these lips, that
they may set out as best they can by Your divine help, the matchless
story of the cross. Oh! Help us to win many to Your family Lord
Jesus. Let us not be barren, but may we have to cry that we are the
beloved of the Lord and our offspring with us. May we have many
spiritual offspring that will go with us to the throne, that we may
say before You, God our Father, "I and the children that You have
given me."

Lord, bless the work of the Church and all its branches and let Your
kingdom come into the hearts of multitudes by its endeavors.
Remember all churches that are really at work for Your Son Jesus and
all private individuals, workers alone, workers by themselves. Let
the name of Jesus be made known by tens of thousands. Give the Your
Holy Word and increase the multitude of them, like the Gideons, that
publish it. Let all this, our beloved country, know Christ and come
to His feet. Let the dark places of this city be enlightened with
the sweet name of Jesus. And then let the people of the earth know
You and the uttermost parts.

Oh! from the tree declare Your salvation and from the throne let it
be published in proclamations of a king. "Let the people praise
You, O God; yes, let all the people praise You."

Our heart seems as if it had not anything else to ask for when it
reaches to this, yet would we go back a moment and say, Lord,
forgive us our sins. Lord, sanctify our persons. Lord, guide us in
difficulty. Lord, supply our needs. Lord teach us. Lord perfect us.
Lord comfort us. Lord make us ready for the appearing of Your Son
from heaven!

And now we come back to a theme that still seems to engross our
desires. Oh! that Christ might come. Oh! that Your word might be
made known to the uttermost ends of the earth! Lord, they die, they
perish, they pass away by multitudes! Every time the sun rises and
sets, they pass away! Make no delay, we beg You. Give wings to the
feet of Your messengers and fire to their mouths that they may
proclaim the Word with Pentecostal swiftness and might. Oh! that
Your kingdom might come and Your will be done on earth as it is in
heaven, for Your is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, forever
and ever. Amen.

