A Prayer For Holiness.

Our Father, we worship and love You and it is one point of our
worship that You are holy. Time was when we loved You for Your
mercy. We knew nothing more, but now You have changed our hearts and
made us in love with goodness, purity, justice, true holiness, and
we understand now why "the cherubim and seraphim continually cry,
Holy, Holy, Lord God of hosts."

We adore You because You are holy, and we love You for Your infinite
perfection. For now, we sigh and cry after holiness ourselves.
Sanctify us completely, spirit, soul, and body. Lord, we mourn over
the sins of our past life and our present shortcomings. We bless
You. You have forgiven us. We are reconciled to You by the death of
Your Son. There are many who know that they have been washed and
that Jesus bears our sin and takes our sin away. These are those who
now cry to You to be delivered from the power of sin, to be
delivered from the power of temptation without, but especially from
the indwelling of sin within.

Lord, purify us in head, heart, and hand, and if it is necessary
that we should be put into the fire to be refined as silver is
refined, then we would welcome the fire if we may be rid of the
dross. Lord, save us from constitutional sin, from sins of
temperament, from sins of our surroundings. Save us from ourselves
in every shape and grant us especially to have the light of love
strong within us.

May we love You our God. May we love You, our Savior. May we love
Your people as being members of one body in connection with You
through Christ. May we love the guilty world with that love which
desires its salvation and conversion and may we love not in word
only, but in deed and in truth. May we help the helpless, comfort
the mourners, sympathize with the widows and the fatherless, and may
we be always ready to put up with wrong, to be long suffering, to be
very patient, full of forgiveness, counting it a small thing that we
should forgive others since we have been forgiven by You oh God.
Lord, tune our hearts to love and then give us an inward peace, a
restfulness about everything.

May we have no burden to carry, because, though we have a burden, we
have rolled it upon You oh Lord. May we take up our cross and
because Christ has once died on the cross, may our cross become a
comfort to us. May we count it all joy when we fall into divers
trials, knowing that in all this You will be glorified, Your image
will be stamped upon us, and Your eternal purpose will be fulfilled,
wherein You predestined us to be conformed unto the image of Your
Son Jesus Christ.

Lord, look upon Your people. We could pray about our troubles. But
we will not. We will only pray against our sins. We might come to
You about our weariness, about our sickness, about our
disappointment, about our poverty, but we will leave all that, we
first will only come about our sin. Lord, make us holy and then do
what You will with us.

We pray You, help us to adorn the doctrine of Jesus our Savior in
all things. If we are fighting against sin --- "the sin which doth
so easily beset us" --- Lord, lend us those heavenly weapons and
give us heavenly strength that we may cut the giants down, these men
of Anak that come against us. Strengthen us Lord, we feel very
feeble.

Oh! make us strong in You O Lord and know the power of Your might.
May we never let sin have any rest in us, may we chase it, drive it
out, slay it, hang it on a tree, abhor it, and may we "cleave to
that which is good."

Some of us are trying, striving after some excellent virtue. Lord,
help those stragglers. Enable those that struggle with great
difficulties to receive greater grace, more faith, and so bring them
nearer to You our God. Lord, we desire to be holy. By Your grace we
will be holy. By Your grace, we will never rest until we are. You
have begun a good work in us and You will carry it on. You will work
in us to will and to do of Your own good pleasure.

Lord, help the converted child to be correct in his relation to his
parents. Help the Christian father and mother to be right in dealing
with children, "may they not provoke their children to anger lest
they may discourage." Take away willfulness from the young. Take
away impatience from the old. Lord, help Christians in business. May
they act honest and uprightly. May Christian employers never be hard
to their employees, to their workers, and may Christian workers,
give to their employers that which is just and equal in the way of
work in return for their wages. May we as Christians be always
standing upon our rights, but always be willing each one to minister
to the help of others.

And oh, that as Christians we might be humble! Lord, take away that
stiff-necked, that proud look. Take away from us the spirit of
"step aside, for I am holier than You." Make us condescend to men
of low estate, yes, and even to men of low morals, low character.
May we seek them out, seek their good. Oh! give to the Church an
intense love for the souls of your creation. May it make our hearts
break to think that they will perish in their sin. May we grieve
every day because of the sin of this community. Set a mark upon our
forehead and let us be known to You as marked disciples that sigh and
cry for all the abominations that are done in the midst of our city.

O God, save us from a hard heart, an unkind spirit that is
insensible to the pain of others. Lord, preserve Your people also
from worldliness, from rioting, from drunkenness, from unrestraint
and recklessness, from strife and envy, from everything that would
dishonor the name of Christ that we bear. Lord, make us holy. Our
prayer comes back to this. Make us holy. Cleanse the inside and let
the outside be clean too. Make us holy, O God. Do this for Christ's
sake. Not that we hope to be saved by our own holiness, but that
holiness is salvation. Then we are saved from sin.

Lord, help Your poor children to be holy. Oh! keep us so if we are
so. Keep us even from stumbling and present us faultless before Your
presence at last. We pray for friends that are ill, for many that
are troubled because of the illness of others. We bring before You
every case of trouble and trial known to us and ask for Your
gracious intervention. We pray for Your ministers everywhere, for
Your missionary servants. Remember those that are making great
sacrifice out in the hot sun or in the cold and frozen north.
Everywhere preserve those who for Christ's sake carry their lives
in their hands.

And our brethren at home, in poverty many of them, working for
Christ, Lord, accept them and help us to help them. Sunday school
teachers, do You remember them and those that visit from door to
door, and the city missionaries, and the praying men and women, all
who in any way endeavor to bring Christ under the notice of men. O,
help them all.

We will offer but one more prayer and it is this. Lord, look in pity
upon any who are not in Christ. May they be converted. May they pass
from death to life and they will never forget it. May they see the
eternal light for the first time and they will remember it even in
eternity. Father, help us. Bless us now for Jesus's sake. Amen.

