Glorious Liberty.

Our Father, we bless Your name that we can say from the bottom of
our hearts, "Abba, Father." It is the most important joy of our
lives that we have become the children of God by faith which is in
Christ Jesus and we can in the deep calm of our spirit say, "Our
Father, which are in heaven, hallowed be Your name, Your kingdom
come, Your will be done in earth as in heaven."

Lord, we thank You for the liberty which comes to our emancipated
spirit through the adoption which You have made us to enjoy. We were
slaves to sin and our chains were heavy, for we could not keep Your
law. We fell short. There was an inward spirit of rebellion. When
the commandment came, it irritated our corrupt nature and sin
revived and we died.

Even when we put for efforts and strived for better things, yet the
power that was in us lusted into evil, and the spirit of the
Hagarene was upon us. We wanted to run away from You. We were wild,
people of the wilderness, and we loved not living in the Your house.

O God, we thank You that we have not been cast out. Through
sovereign grace You altered us. Blessed be Your name. It is a work
of divine power and love over human nature, for now we are the
children of the promise, certainly not born according to the
strength of the human will, or of blood, or of birth, but born by
the Holy Spirit through the power of the Word, the Good News, the
Gospel. Born again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus
Christ from the dead, children of the Great Father who is in heaven,
having Your life within us. Now, like Isaac, we are heirs according
to promise and heirs of the promise, and we dwell at home in the
Your house and our soul is satisfied as with marrow and fatness, and
our mouth will praise You with joyful lips.

O God, we would not change places with angels, much less with kings
of the earth. To be Your sons and daughters --- the thought of it
brings to our soul a present blessing and the fruition of it will
be our heaven, to dwell forever in Your house nevermore run away the
prodigal, but to be Your children and joint heirs forever and ever.

Our first prayer is for others who are still in bondage. We thank
You, Lord, that You have given them the spirit of bondage and made
them to fear. We are glad that they should be brought to feel the
evil of sin, to feel the perfection of Your law, to know something
of the fiery nature of Your justice, and so to be shut up unto
salvation by grace through faith. But, Lord, let them not spend too
much time learning the law, but may the law with its justice bring
them to Christ.

Lord, cure any of Your chosen of self-righteousness. Deliver them
from any hope in their own abilities but keep them low. Bring them
out of any hope of salvation by their own prayers or their own
repentance. Bring them to cast themselves upon Your grace to be
saved by trusting in Your Son Jesus Christ. Free them from all
observance of days, weeks, months, years, and things of human
institution, and bring them into the glorious liberty as Your
children that Your law may become their delight, Your Yourself
become their strength, their all. Your Son become their joy and
their crown. We pray this with all our hearts.

Lord, deliver any of Your children from quarreling with You. Help us
to be always at one with You our God. Blessed be Your name forever
and ever.

God, bless our country and all lands where Your name is known and
reverenced, and pour out your mercy to those lands where the name of
Jesus is still unknown. God, bless the missionaries at their
outposts, the first heralds of mercy, and everywhere may the Lord's
kingdom come and His name be glorified. Glory be unto You the
Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit as it was in the
beginning, is now, and ever will be, world without end. Amen.

