The Music Of Praise.

O blessed God, we must be helped by Your Spirit, or we cannot worship
You as we should. Behold the holy angels adore You and the hosts
redeemed by blood bring everlasting Hallelujahs to Your feet. What
are we, the creatures of a day, polluted with sin, that we should
think that we can praise You? And yet the music of praise was not
complete if Your children did not join in it, even those who are
still in this world below. Help us, then, enable us to tune our
instruments and to bring forth music from our spirit.

Lord, if there are any creatures in the world that can praise You,
we ought to do so. Each one among us feels that they have some
special reason for gratitude. Lord, it is an unspeakable mercy to
know You --- to know You as our reconciled God, to know You as our
Father in Christ Jesus, who has forgiven us all our trespasses. Oh!
it is unspeakably blessing to come and rest in You and to know that
there is now no cause of quarrel between us and You. On the
contrary, that we are bound to one another by a covenant which in
infinite tenderness and mercy You have made it possible that Your
people might have strong consolation and might boldly take hold on
You.

Oh! the joy of knowing that we are Yours forever, Yours in the
trials of life, and Yours in the last dread trial of death, and then
Yours in resurrection, Yours throughout eternity. We do therefore
worship You, O God, not constrained by terror or pressure, but
liberated with joy and happiness, ascribing to You praise, and
power, and dominion, and glory, and honor, world without end.

We wish we knew how to do something for You. We pray that we may be
helped to do so. Yes, that in every fleeting hour we may confess
that we have brought Your Gospel some exposure, that we may live to
extend the Redeemer's kingdom at least in some little measure, that
ours may not be a fruitless, wasted life, that no ability of ours go
unused and rust, but to the best of our capacity may we be helped of
the divine Spirit to spend our whole life in real adoration.

We know that whoever prays serves. Whoever praises gives. Whoever
adores obeys. Whoever has the new life provides best music. Oh! set
us to good music, we pray You, and help us all to keep to each note
and may there be no wrong note in all the singing of our life. Let
our life be according to that sacred score which is written out so
fully in the life music of our Lord Jesus Christ.

We beg You to look down upon Your children and cheer us. Lord, lift
us up. Come, Holy Spirit, like a fresh, bracing wind and let our
spirit, through Your Spirit, rise upward toward God our Savior.

We would with much shame acknowledge our transgressions and sins.
There are some that never felt the burden of sin at all. Lord, lay
it on them. Press them with it. Almighty God, vex their souls. Let
them find no rest till they find rest in You. May they never be
content to live and die in sin, but of Your infinite mercy, come to
them and make them sorry for their sin.

As for Your people, we are grieved to think that we do not live
better than we do. Blessed be Your name forever fruit of holiness,
forever work of faith, but oh! for more. You have changed the tree.
It is no longer a bramble. It can bring forth figs, but now we want
to bring forth more of these sweet fruits.

Lord make us to love Christ intensely, to love souls most
passionately, to love Your truth with earnestness, to love the name
of Jesus above everything. May we be enthralled with the sound of
it. Lord mold us to have every grace, not only love, but faith,
and hope, and holy gentleness, meekness, patience, brotherly love.
Build us up, we pray You, Lord, in all knowledge and in all
experience, and give us with this submission to Your will, holy
resignation, great watchfulness, carefulness in our speech, that we
may rule the tongue and so rule the whole body.

Lord pour out Your Spirit upon us that every chamber of our nature
may be sweetened and perfumed with the indwelling of Your presence,
until our imagination only delights in things good and pure, until
our memory casts out the vile stuff from the dark chambers, until
we expect and long for heavenly things, and our all our treasure be
in heaven and our heart, be kept there. Take all that we have, Lord,
and saturate it in Your love, until like Gideon's fleece it is
filled with dew, every lock, and every single fleck of it, not a
single portion of it left unmoistened by the dew from heaven.

How we do bless You for many that are striving to walk as Christ
walked and who are also trying to bring others to Christ. O Lord,
help us in this struggle after holiness and usefulness and as You
have given to many the desire of their hearts in this respect up to
a certain measure, now enlarge-their hearts and give them more of
both holiness and usefulness. Oh! give us to be like trees planted
by the rivers of water, that we ourselves may be vigorous, and then
give us to bring forth abundant fruit according to our season, to
the praise and glory of Your our God.

Our desire is that we may be quickened in our progress toward the
Christian life. Visit us with Your salvation. Lord, let us not only
have life but let us have it more abundantly. May we every one of
us quicken our pace and may we run more earnestly than ever toward
the mark that is set before us.

Remember all Your Church throughout the whole world. Prosper
missionary operations. Be with any ministers or missionaries that
are depressed for lack of success. Be with any that are rejoicing
because of success. May each heart be kept in a right state, so that
You may use Your servants to the utmost of possibility.

O God, send us better days than these, we pray You. We thank You for
all the light there is but send us more light. We thank You for
what life there is among Christians but send more of it. Bind the
churches together in unity, and then give them such speed, such
force, such power that they will break into the ranks of the
adversary and the victory will be unto Christ and to His people.

Remember our dear country. Bless the president. Remember all those
that lead our legislature. Be gracious unto all ranks and conditions
of men. Have mercy upon all that are poor and needy, all that are
sick and sorrowing, and that are tossed upon the sea. Remember the
prisoners and such as have no helper. Be gracious to such as are in
the article of death and finally, let the day come when the Sun
will shine forth in all Your brightness, and Christ Jesus be
manifested, admired in them that believe and to make glad the whole
creation. Make no delay, You the Sun of Righteousness, our Lord
Jesus Christ. Amen.

