Under The Blood.

Jehovah our God, we thank You for leaving on record the story of
Your ancient people. It is full of instruction to us. Help us
to take its warning to avoid the faults into which they fell! You
are a covenant God and You keep Your promises and Your Word never
fails. We have proved that we find every promise good that is
ratified with the blood of your Son Jesus Christ.

But as for ourselves, we are like Israel of old, a fickle people and
we confess it with great shame, there are days when we take the
timbrel and we sing with Miriam, "Unto the Lord who triumphed
gloriously," and yet we grieve to say it, not many hours after, we
are thirsty and we cry for water, and we murmur in our tents. The
brackish Marah turns our heart, and we are grieved with You our God.
Sometimes we bow before You with reverence and awe when we behold
Your Sinai altogether on a smoke, but there have been times when we
have set up the golden calf and we have said of some earthly things,
"These be Your gods, O Israel." We believe with intensity of faith
and then doubt with a horribleness of doubt.

Lord, You have been very patient with us. Many have been our
provocations, many have been Your chastisements, but ---

"Your strokes are fewer than our crimes,

And lighter than our guilt."

"You have not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us
according to our iniquities." Blessed be Your name!

And now fulfil that part of the covenant where You said, "A new
heart also will I give you and a right spirit will I put within
thee. I will put My fear in their hearts, and they will not depart
from Me." Hold us fast and then we will hold fast to You. Turn us
and we will be turned. Keep us and we will keep Your statutes.

We cry to You that we may no longer provoke You. We beg You rather to
send the serpents among us than to let sin come among us. Oh! that
we might have our eye always on the brazen serpent that heals all
the bites of evil, but may we not look to sin nor love it. Let not
the devices of Balaam and of Balak prevail against us, that lead
Your people away from their purity. Let us not be defiled with false
doctrine or with unholy living, but may we walk as the separated
people of God and keep us unspotted from the world. Lord, we
would not grieve Your Spirit. Oh! may we never vex You so as to lead
You in Your wrath to say, "They will not enter into my rest."
Bear with us still for Jesus' sake whose blood is upon us. Bear
with us still and send not the destroying angel as You did to Egypt,
but again fulfil that promise of Yours "When I see the blood I
will pass over you."

Just now may we be consciously passed over by the Spirit of
condemnation. May we know in our hearts that, "There is therefore
now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus." May we feel
the peace giving power of the divine absolution. May we come into
Your holy presence with our feet washed in the brazen laver, hearing
our great High Priest say to us, "Ye are clean every bit." And
being made clean, may we draw near to You our God through Jesus
Christ our Lord.

Further, our heavenly Father, we come before You now washed in the
blood, wearing the snow-white robe of Christ's righteousness, and
we ask You to remember Your people. Some are very burdened ---
lighten the burden or strengthen the shoulder. Some are bowed down
with fear, likely they mistrust --- forgive the mistrust and give a
great increase of faith that they may trust You where they cannot
trust You. Lord remember any who bear the burden of others. Some
cry to You day and night about the sins of the times, about the
wanderings of Your Church. Lord, hear their prayers! We would bear
this yoke for You, but help us to bear it without fearing so as to
distrust You. May we know that You will take care of Your own case
and preserve Your own truth and may we therefore be restful about it
all.

Some are crying to You for the conversion of relatives and friends.
This burden they have taken up to follow Jesus in the cross
bearing. Grant them to see the desire of their heart fulfilled. God,
save our children and children's children, and if we have
unconverted relatives of any kind, the Lord have mercy upon them for
Christ's sake. Give us joy in them --- as much joy in them as
Christians, as we have had sorrow about them as unbelievers.

Further, be pleased to visit Your Church with the Holy Spirit. Renew
the day of Pentecost in our midst, and during all
gatherings of Your people may there come the downfall of the holy
fire, the uprising of the heavenly wind. May matters that are now
slow and dead become quick and full of life and may the Lord Jesus
Christ be exalted amid Your Church, His bride, which is His fulness,
"the fulness of Him that fills all in all." May multitudes be
converted. May they come flocking to Christ with holy eagerness to
find in Him a refuge as the doves fly to their raised houses.

Oh! for salvation work throughout these lands and across the sea and
in every part of the world, especially in lands where the name of
Jesus is unknown. Bring many to Christ's feet, we pray You,
everywhere where men are ready to lay down their lives that they may
impart the heavenly life of Christ. Work, Lord, work mightily! Your
Church cries to You. Oh, don't leave us! We can do nothing without
You! Our strength is wholly in You! Come to us with great power and
let Your Word have free course and be glorified.

Remember every one that calls You Father. May Your fatherly love
look on all the children. May the special need of each one be
supplied, the special sorrow of each one be alleviated. May we be
growing Christians, may we be working Christians, may we be
perfected Christians, may we come to the fullness of Christ Jesus.
Lord Jesus, You are a great pillar. In You all fullness dwells. You
began Your earthly life filling the water pots to the full. You
filled Simon Peter's boat until it began to sink. You filled the
house where Your people met together with the presence of the Holy
Ghost. You do fill heaven now. You will surely fill all things. Fill
us, oh Lord! fill us today with all the fulness of Your presence and
make Your people joyful, and strong, and gracious, and heavenly!

But we cannot leave off our prayer when we have prayed for Your
people, though we have asked large things. We want You to look among
the thousands and millions around us who do not know You. Lord, look
on the masses who go nowhere to worship. Have pity upon them.
Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Give them a
desire to hear Your Word. Send upon the people some desire after
their Creator. O Lord, take sinners in hand Yourself. Oh! Come and
reach the obstinate, obdurate minds. Let the careless and the
frivolous begin to think about eternal things. May there be an
uneasiness of heart, a sticking of Your arrows in their belly, and
may they seek the great physician and find healing this very day.
Ah! Lord, as You said, "Today, if ye will hear His voice," and we
take up the echo. Save people today, even today. Bring them Your
Spirit in power that they may be willing to rest in Christ. Lord,
hear, forgive, accept, and bless, for Jesus' sake. Amen.

