On Holy Ground.

"Our Father, which are in heaven, hallowed be Your name, Your
kingdom come, Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven." O
Lord Jesus, we confess that we often begin our prayer with petitions
for ourselves and put our daily bread before Your kingdom and the
pardoning of our sins before the hallowing of Your name. We humble
ourselves before you today guided by Your model prayer, we would
first pray for Your glory and here, O God, we would adore You. It is
You that have made us and not we ourselves. We are Your people and
the sheep of Your pasture. All glory be unto You, Jehovah, the only
living and true God.

With heart and mind, and memory and fear, and hope and joy, we
worship You the Most High. We remove our shoes whos soles are filthy
with the dust of this world and draw near to You our God, for the
place whereon we stand in prayer is holy ground. If You Jehovah
demanded sandals removed when You spoke to your servant in the bush,
how much more will we approach You with honor and reverence when you
speak to us through Your Son Christ Jesus and Your Holy Spirit?

With lowliest reverence, with truest love, we worship You in Christ
Jesus, joining together with all the redeemed host above and with
all the angels, principalities, and powers unseen. We cannot cast
crowns at Your feet, for we have none as yet, but if there be any
virtue, if there be any praise, if there be about us anything of
grace and goodness, we ascribe it all to You working through us by
Your Spirit. We cannot veil our faces with wings, for we have none,
but we veil them with something better than angelic wings, the blood
and righteousness of You Son Jesus Christ. With these we cover our
faces, with these we cover our feet, and with these we fly up to You
O God in holy fellowship. Glory, and honor, and power, and dominion
be unto You that sits on the throne and unto the Lamb forever and
forever.

Great God, we long that You may be known unto the ends of the earth,
that idols may be utterly abolished. We long that false doctrine may
fly like birds of darkness before the light and Your coming. Reign
in the hearts of men and women everywhere. Lord, subdue sin and
under Your feet let drunkenness, moral impurity, and oppression, and
every form of wickedness be put away by the Gospel of Jesus Christ
and His Holy Spirit.

Oh! that today, even today, many hearts might be won to Jesus.
Convince men of the wrong of being alienated from You O God. Put
into their hearts sorrow for sin and dread of the wrath to come, and
lead and drive men to Christ. Oh! how we pray for this, the
salvation of all mankind, not so much for their sakes as for the
sake of Your glory and the reward of Christ for His pain and
unmerited suffering.

We do with all our hearts pray, "Your kingdom come, Your will be
done on earth, as it is in heaven." Lord, help us to do Your will.
Take the crippled kingdoms of this earth and reign over them. Let
spirit and body be consecrated to You O God. May there be no
reserves. May everything be given up to You. Reign forever! Pierced
King, despised and nailed to a tree, sit You on the glorious high
throne in our hearts and may our lives prove that You are Lord over
us by our every thought and desire, and imagination, and word, and
act, in every respect being under Your divine control.

Your people breathe to You out of their very hearts the prayer that
You may reign over us without a rival. O Savior, use for Yourself
what You have bought with blood, and drive out the enemy, and let no
power have any dominion over us except the power of Your Spirit
which works righteousness and peace.

We pray today also that Your truth may prevail against the many
anti-Christs that have gone forth against it. Our Father, restore a
pure language to Your Zion once again. Take away, we pray You, the
itching for new doctrine, the longing for that which is thought to
be scientific and wise above what is written, and may Your Church
come to her moorings, may she cast anchor in the truth of Your Word
and there abide. And if it be Your will, may we live to see brighter
and better times.

If it might be so, we would pray for the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ very quickly to end these sluggish years, these long delaying
days. But if He does not come, yet put power into Your truth and
quicken Your Church that she may become energetic for the spread of
the Gospel, that so Your kingdom may come. We seek this first and
above everything, to Your glory. We ask for grace that we may live
with this end in view. May we lay ourselves out to it. May this be
our morning thought, the thought that we have in our minds when we
lay awake at night. What will I do, my Savior, to praise? How can I
make You illustrious and win another heart to Your throne? Now bless
us. Forgive us our trespasses wherein we have sinned against You.
Seal our pardon upon our consciences and make us feel that as we
truly forgive them that trespass against us, so have You forgiven us
all our iniquities. We pray You, lead us not into temptation. Do not
try us, Lord, nor suffer the devil to try us. If we must be tried
then deliver us from evil, and especially from the evil one, that he
may get no dominion over us.

Oh! keep us, Lord. This life is full of trials. There are many of us
that are perplexed about temporary things. Let not the enemy lead us
to do or think that which is amiss, because of the straightness of
supply. Others are blessed with prosperity. Lord, let it not be a
curse to them. Let them know how to abound as well as to suffer
loss. In all things may they be instructed to glorify You O God, not
only with all they are, but with all they have, and even with all
they have not, by a holy contentment to do without that which it
does not please You to bestow.

And then, Lord, give us day by day our daily bread. Provide for Your
poor people. Let them not think that the provision for themselves
rests fully on themselves, but may they cry to You, for You have
said, "Your bread will be given thee, thy waters will be sure."
If we follow You, if You lead us into a desert, You will sprinkle our
path with manna. May Your people believe this and let them have no
care, but like the birds of the air which neither sow nor gather
into barns and yet are fed, so may Your people be.

But above all, give us spiritual help. Give us wisdom, which is
profitable to get. Give us the absence of all self-seeking and a
complete yielding up of our desires to the will of God. Help us to
be as Christ was, who was not His own, but gave Himself to You His
Father for our sins. So may we for His sake give ourselves up to do
or suffer the will of You our Father who is in heaven.

Remember Your people in their families and convert their children.
Give us help and strength. Spare the little precious lives that are
in danger. Be gracious to any that are dying. May the eternal life
You provided by Christ Jesus swallow up the death of the body.
Prepare us all for Your glorious advent. Keep us waiting and
watching and come quickly to our heart's desire, for we pray,
"Your kingdom come, Your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven,
for Yours is the kingdom, and the power and the glory, forever and
ever." Amen.

