The Wings Of Prayer.

Our Father, Your children who know You delight themselves in Your
presence. We are never happier than when we are near You. We have
found a little heaven in prayer. It has eased our load to tell You
of its weight. It has relieved our wounds to tell You of their pain.
It has restored our spirit to confess to You its wanderings. There
is no place like the Mercy Seat for us.

We thank You, Lord, that we have not only found benefit in prayer,
but in the answers to it, we have been greatly enriched. You have
opened Your hid treasures to the voice of prayer. You have supplied
our necessities as soon as ever we have cried unto You. Yes, we have
found what You said is true, "Before they call, I will answer, and
while they are yet speaking, I will hear."

We do bless You, Lord, for instituting the blessed ordinance of
prayer. What could we do without it and we take great shame to
ourselves that we should use it so little. We pray that we may
always people of prayer, taken up with it, that it may take us up
and bear us as on its wings towards heaven.

And now at this hour will You hear the voice of our supplication.
First, we ask at Your hands, great Father, complete forgiveness for
all our trespasses and shortcomings. We hope we can say with
truthfulness that we do from our heart forgive all those who have in
any way trespassed against us. There lies not in our heart, we hope,
a thought of enmity towards anyone. However, if we have been
slandered or wronged, we would, with our inmost heart, forgive and
forget it all.

We come to You and pray that, for Jesus' sake, and through the
virtue of the blood once shed for many for the remission of sins,
You would give us perfect pardon of every transgression of the past.
Blot out, O God, all our sins like a cloud and let them never be
seen again. Grant us also the peace-speaking word of promise applied
by the Holy Spirit, that being justified by faith we may have peace
with God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let us be forgiven and know
it and may there remain no lingering question in our heart about our
reconciliation with God, but by a firm, full assurance based upon
faith in the finished work of Christ, may we stand as forgiven men
and women against whom transgression will be mentioned never again
forever.

And then, Lord, we have another mercy to ask which will be the
burden of our prayer. It is that You would help us to live such
lives as a pardoned person should live. We have but a little time
here, for our life is but a vapor, soon it vanishes away, but we are
most anxious that we may spend the time of our living here in holy
fear and reverence, that grace may be upon us from the commencement
of our Christian life even to the earthly close of it.

Lord, You know there are some that have not yet begun to live for
You and the prayer is now offered that they may today be born again.
Others have been long in Your ways and are not weary of them. We
sometimes wonder that You are not weary of us, but now, more and
more, we delight ourselves in the ways of holiness more than ever we
did. Oh! that our ways were directed to keep Your statutes without
slip or flaw. We wish we were perfectly obedient in thought, and
word, and deed, entirely sanctified. We will never be satisfied
till we wake up in Christ's likeness, the likeness of perfection
itself. Oh! work us to this self-same thing, we beg You. May
experience teach us more and more how to avoid occasions of sin. May
we grow more watchful. May we have a greater supremacy over our own
spirit. May we be able to control ourselves under all circumstances
and so act that if the Master were to come at any moment, we should
not be ashamed to give our account into His hands.

Lord, we are not what we want to be. This is our sorrow. Oh! that
You would, by Your Spirit, help us in the walks of life to adorn the
doctrine of Jesus our Savior in all things. As men of business, as
employees, as parents, as children, as workers, as volunteers,
whatever we may be, may we be such that Christ may look upon us with
pleasure. May the joy of our Lord Jesus be in us, for only then can
our joy be full.

Dear Savior, we are Your disciples, and You are teaching us the art
of living, but we are very dull and very slow, and besides, there is
such a bias in our corrupt nature, and there are such examples in
the world, and the influence of an ungodly generation pressures even
upon those that know You. O dear Savior, be not impatient with us,
but still teach us at Your feet, until at last we have learned some
of the sublime lessons of self-sacrifice, of meekness, humility,
fervor, boldness, and love in which Your life is fit to teach us. O
Lord, we beg You mold us into Your own image. Let us live in You and
live like You. Let us gaze upon Your glory until we are transformed
by the light and become Christ-like among the sons of men.

Lord, hear the confessions of any that have backslidden, who are
rather marring Your image than perfecting it. Hear the prayers of
any that are conscious of great defects during the past. Give them
peace of mind by pardon, but give them strength of mind also to keep
clear of such mischief in the future. O Lord, we are sighing and
crying more and more after Yourself. The more we have of You, the
more we want You. The more we grow like You, the more we perceive
our defects and the more we long after a higher standard, to reach
even unto perfection's self.

Oh! help us. Spirit of the living God, continue still to travail in
us. Let the groanings that cannot be uttered be still within our
Spirit, for these are growing pains, and we will grow while we can
sigh and cry, while we can confess and mourn. Yet this is not
without a blessed hopefulness that You Lord Jesus that began a good
work in us will perfect it in the day of Your glorious return.

Bless, I pray You, at this time, the entire Church universal in
every part of the earth. Prosper the work and service of Christian
people, however they endeavor to spread the kingdom of Christ.
Convert those who hear your name. Enlighten those that are in any
form of error. Remove the blinders of false gods and false
religions. Bring the entire Church back to the original form of
Christianity. Make her first pure and then she will be united. O,
Savior, let Your kingdom come. Oh! that You would reign and Your
will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.

We pray You, use every one of us according as we have ability to be
used. Take us and let no talent lie idle and start rusting in the
treasure house, but may every coin of Yours be used in trading for
You in that blessed market of soul winning. Oh! give us success.
Increase those gifts and graces of everyone who is saved. Bind us in
closer unity to one another than ever. Let peace reign. Let holiness
adorn us.

Hear us as we pray for all countries, and then for all sorts of
citizens, from the president in the white house to the homeless
under the overpass. Lead us to be salt and light to them. Redeem all
to Yourself through the saving power of Your Son Jesus Christ. Let
the benediction of heaven descend on men, through Jesus Christ our
Lord. Amen.

