Bless The Lord O My Soul.

Lord, we are longing to draw near, may Your Spirit draw us near. We
come by the way of Christ our Mediator. We could not approach You, O
God, if it were not for Jesus, but in Him we come boldly to the
throne of heavenly grace. Nor can we come without thanksgiving ---
thanksgiving from the heart, such as the tongue can never express.
You have chosen us from before the foundation of the world and this
fountain of mercy sends out streams of loving-kindness never
ceasing. Because we were chosen, we have been redeemed with His
precious blood. Bless the Lord! And we have been called by the Holy
Spirit out of the world and we have been led to obey that wondrous
call which hath quickened us and renewed us, and made us the Your
people O God, given us adoption into Your divine family. Bless You O
Lord!

Our hearts would pause as we remember the greatness of each one of
Your favors and we would say, "Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all
that is within me, bless His holy name." When we consider our utter
unworthiness before conversion and our great faultiness since, we
can but admire the riches of abounding grace which You have
manifested to us unworthy ones. Bless You Lord! And when we think of
all that You have promised to give, which our faith embraces as
being really ours, since the covenant makes it certain, we know not
how to abundantly utter the memory of Your great goodness. We wish
we could make our praises equal to our expectations and our
expectations equal to Your promises. We can never rise so high. We
give to You, however, the praise of our entire being. Unto You
Jehovah, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,
the Creator of the world, the redeemed of men, unto Jehovah be glory
forever and ever and let all His people praise Him. Let all the
redeemed of the Lord say so, all who You redeemed from the hand of
the enemy.

O Lord, Your works praise You, but Your saints bless You and this
will be our heaven. Yes, our heaven of heavens eternally to praise
and magnify You, the great and ever blessed God. May many men,
women, and children join in chorus and say with the virgin Mary of
old, "My soul doth magnify the Lord and my spirit doth rejoice in
God my Savior." May there be going up this day sweet incense, of
praise laid by holy hands, privately upon the altar Oh God. May the
place be filled with the smoke thereof, not perhaps to the
consciousness of everyone, but to the acceptance of You our God who
will smell a sweet aroma of rest in Christ and then in the praises
of Your people in Jesus.

But, Lord, when we have praised You, we have to fold the wing. Yea,
we have to cover our face and cover our feet and stand before You to
worship in another fashion, for we confess that we are evil, evil in
our original state, and though renewed by sovereign grace, Your
people cannot speak of being clean, rid of sin. There is sin which
dwells in us which is our daily plague. O God, we humble ourselves
before You. We ask that our faith may clearly perceive the blood of
the atonement and the covering of the perfect righteousness of
Christ, and may we come afresh, depending alone on Jesus. May we
join with the Apostle Paul an confess that even if we are the
greatest of sinners, Jesus died for me. May this be our one hope,
that Jesus died and rose again, and that for His sake we are
accepted in the Beloved.

May every child of Yours have their conscience purged from dead
works to serve You, the true and living God. May there be no cloud
between us and You Heavenly Father. No, not even a mist, not even
the morning mist that is gone so soon. May we walk in the light as
You are in the light. May our fellowship with You the Father and
with Your Son, Jesus Christ, be unquestionable. May it be fuel. May
it fill us with joy. May it be a most real fact this day. May we
enjoy it to the full, knowing in whom we have believed, knowing who
is our Father, knowing who it is that dwells in us, even the Holy
Spirit.

Take away from us everything which now might hinder our delighting
ourselves in You O God. May we come to You this day with a supreme
joy. May we speak of You like the Psalmist "God my exceeding joy;
yea, mine own God is He." O God, give us a sense of property in
Yourself. May we come near to You, having no doubt and nothing
whatsoever that will spoil the beautiful simplicity of a childlike
faith which looks up into Your great face and says, "Our Father,
which are in heaven."

There are those who never repented of sin and never believed in
Christ and consequently Your wrath abides on them. They are living
without You O God. They are living in darkness. O Lord, in Your
great mercy look upon them. They do not look at You, but do You look
at them. May the sinner see their sin and mourn it, see His Savior
and accept Him, see himself saved and going on his way rejoicing.
Father, grant this to us.

Once more we pray You, bless Your Church. Lord, quicken the
spiritual life of believers. You have given to Your Church great
activity, for which we thank You. May that activity be supported by
a corresponding inner life. Let us not get to be busy here and there
like Martha and forget to sit at Your feet with Mary. Lord, restore
to Your Church the love of strong doctrine. May Your truth yet
prevail. Purge out from among Your Church those who would lead
others away from the truth as it is in Jesus and give back the old
power and something more. Give us Pentecost. Yes, many Pentecosts in
one and may we live to see Your Church shine forth clear as the sun
and fair as the moon, and terrible as an army with banners.

God grant that we may live to see better days. But if perilous times
should come in these last days, make us faithful. Raise up in these
United States men and women that will hold the truth firmly as
their fathers did. Raise up in every nation, where there has been a
faithful church, men and women that will not let the vessel drift
upon the rocks. O God of the Judges, You who did raise up first one
and then another when the people went astray from You, raised up for
us still (our Joshuas are dead) our Deborahs, our Baraks, our
Gideons, and Jephthahs, and Samuels, that will maintain for You
Your truth and worst the enemies of Israel. Lord, look upon Your
Church in these days. Lord, revive us. Lord, restore us. Lord, give
power to Your Word again that Your name may be glorified.

Remember the Church in this land in all its various phases and
portions, and pour out Your Spirit upon it. Remember the multitude
of Your people across the earth, prosper them, bless them with the
increase of followers of Christ. And wherever You have a people, may
Jesus dwell with them and reveal Himself to His own, for Christ's
sake, to whom be glory with the Father and with the Holy Ghost,
forever and ever. Amen.

