The Peace Of God.

Our God, we stand not afar off as Israel did in Sinai, nor does a
veil hang dark between Your face and ours, but the veil is rent by
the death of our divine Lord and Mediator, Jesus Christ, and in His
name we come up to the Mercy Seat all blood being sprinkled, and
here we present our prayers and our praises accepted in Him through
the intercession of the Holy Spirit. We do confess that we are
guilty. We bow our heads and confess that we have broken Your law
and the covenant of which it is a part. Had You dealt with us under
the covenant of works, none of us could stand. We must confess that
we deserve Your wrath and to be banished forever from Your presence.
But You have made a new covenant and we come under its divine
shadow. We come in the name of Jesus. He is our High Priest. He is
our righteousness. He is the well-beloved in whom You are
well-pleased.

Holy Spirit, teach us how to pray. Let us know what we should pray
for as we ought. Our first prayer is, Let Jesus be adored. Let Jesus
reign over the whole earth. Hallowed be the Name of Jesus. We desire
to see all men submit themselves to His gracious government. We
especially wish that in the hearts of Your own there may be an
intense love for Christ and a perfect obedience to God our Father.
Grant this to each one of us. We would each one pray, "Sanctify me.
Make me obedient. Write Your law upon my heart and upon my mind."
Make our nature so clean that temptation cannot defile it.

"Lead us not into temptation but deliver us from the evil one."
May our course be very clean, our path be very straight. May we keep
our garments unspotted from the world and in thought and desire and
imagination, in will and in purpose, may we be holy as God is holy.

O God, we pray again, fulfill that covenant promise where You said,
"I will take away the heart of stone out of your flesh, and I will
give you a heart of flesh." May we be very tender towards You. May
we feel Your faintest monition. May even the gentlest breath of Your
Spirit suffice to move us. May we not be "as the horse or as the
mule which have no understanding; whose mouth must be held in with
bit and bridle, lest they come near unto us," but may we be as
children obedient to a father. May we yield our members cheerfully
to the instruments of righteousness. May we have a natural desire
wrought in the new nature towards everything that is pure and
honest, unselfish, and Christ-like.

O Spirit of God, dwell in us. Is not this also a covenant promise,
"I will put My Spirit within thee, and I will make thee to walk in
My ways." Dwell with us, Holy Spirit. Rule over us, Holy Spirit.
Transform us to the likeness of Jesus, O Holy Spirit! Then will we
be clean, then will we keep the law. We would offer a prayer to You
for those who are quite strange to the work of the Spirit of God,
who have never owned their God, who have lived as if there were no
God. Open their eyes that they may see our Almighty God even though
that sight should make them tremble and wish to die. Oh, let none of
us live without our God and Father. Take away that heart of stone,
take away the frivolities, the levity, the giddiness of our youth,
and give us in downright earnest to seek true happiness where alone
it can be found, in reconciliation to You O God, and in conformity
to Your will.

Lord, save the careless, save the sinful, the drunkard, take away
from him his cups. The unholy and unjust men, deliver these from
their filthiness. The dishonest and false, renew them in their lives
and any that are lovers of pleasure, dead while they live, and any
that are lovers of self, whose life is bounded by the narrowness of
their own being, the Lord renew them, regenerate them, make them new
creatures in Christ Jesus. For this we do fervently pray.

Lord God the Holy Ghost may faith grow in men. May they believe in
Christ to the saving of their souls. May their little faith brighten
into strong faith and may their strong faith ripen into the full
assurance of faith. May we all have this last blessing. May we
believe God fully. May we never waver. Resting in the great Surety
and High Priest of the New Covenant may we feel "the peace of God
which passes all understanding," and may we enter into rest.

Bless Your people that are at rest and deepen that rest. May the
rest that You give be further enhanced by the rest which they find
when they take Your yoke upon them and learn of You. May Your Word
be very sweet to them. May there come over our spirits a deep calm,
as when Christ hushed both winds and waves. May we feel not only
resignation to Your will, but delight in it, feeling pleased with
all the Lord provides. May we rest in You our God and be quite happy
in the thought that our sins and our iniquities You will remember no
more. You have brought us into covenant with Christ. A covenant
which can never fail, so like David we may say this morning,
"Although my house be not so with God, yet He hath made with me an
everlasting covenant, ordered in all things and sure."

Lord, bless Your Word throughout the world. Prosper all missions
among the Muslims, Hindus, and all that deny or resist the good news
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Send Your grace to the churches at
home. Turn the current of thought which sets so strong in the wrong
direction and bring men to love the simplicities of the Gospel.
Remember our country in great mercy and in all ranks and conditions
of men give a blessing. May there be multitudes come to Christ from
among the poorest of the poor and greatest of the wealthy be led
away from their sin and brought to Jesus' feet. Be gracious to the
president and leaders in Congress, Judges, and to all that are in
authority over us. May peace and order be maintained and let not the
peace of the world be broken.

But what of all this? Our heart goes far beyond all this, "Your
will be done on earth, as it is in heaven; for Yours is the kingdom,
and the power and the glory, forever and ever." "Come, Lord Jesus,
come quickly." All things are in Your hand, come quickly; the cries
of Your people persuade You, "The Spirit and the bride say, come,"
make no delay, O, our Redeemer, and unto the Father, to the Son, and
to the Holy Ghost, the God of Abraham and God of our Lord Jesus
Christ be glory forever and ever. Amen.

