He Ever Lives.

Our God, we come to You by Jesus Christ who has gone within the veil
on our behalf and ever lives to make intercession for us. Our poor
prayers could never reach You were it not for Him, but His hands are
full of sweet perfume which makes our pleading sweet with You. His
blood is sprinkled on the Mercy Seat and now we know that You will
always hear those who approach You through that ever-blessed name.

We have deeply felt our entire unworthiness even to lift our eyes
to the place where Your honor dwells. You have made us to die to our
self-righteousness. We pray now because we have been quickened. We
have received a new life and the breath of that life is prayer. We
have risen from the dead and we also make intercession through the
life which Christ has given us. We plead with You, the living God,
with living hearts because Jesus Christ has made us to live.

Our first prayer will be for those who do not pray. There is an
ancient promise of Your, "I am found of them that sought Me not; I
said, Behold Me, behold Me, to a people that were not a people."
Prove the sovereignty of Your grace, the priority of Your power,
which runs before the will of man, by making many willing in this
the day of Your power, and calling the things that are not as though
they were. May the day come in which they that are in their graves
will hear Your voice O God and they that hear will live.

How often You show Your mighty power. O Lord, we bless You that the
Your voice has called many to Jesus. Those that are hardened have
felt a softness stealing over their spirits. Those who were careless
have been compelled to sit down and think. Those that were wrapped
up in earthly things have been compelled to think of eternal things
and thinking, have been disturbed and driven to despair, but
afterwards led to You, even to You, dear Savior, who were lifted
high upon the cross that by Your death sinners might live.

But, Lord, we would pray next that Your own people should know
somewhat of the quickening of the Holy Spirit. Lord, we thank You
for the very least life to God, for the feeblest ray of faith and
glimmering of hope. We are glad to see anything of Christ in any
man, but You have come, O Savior, not only that we might have life,
but that we might have it more abundantly, so our prayer is that
there may be abundance of life.

O make Your people strong in spirit, in the power of Your might.
Lord, we find when we walk close with You that we have no desire for
the world. When we get away altogether from the things that are seen
and temporal, and live upon the invisible and eternal, then we will
have angels' food. No, better than that, the food of Christ
Himself, for his flesh is meat indeed and His blood is drink indeed.
Then have we meat to eat that the world does not know. We pray You
raise all our brothers and sisters in Christ into the high and
heavenly frame of mind in which they will be in the world and not
be of it. Whether they have little or much of temporal things, may
they be rich in You and full of joy in the Holy Ghost, and so be
blessed men and women.

We pray for some of Your own people who seem to be doing very little
for You. Lord, have mercy upon those whose strength runs towards the
world and who give but little of their strength to the spread of the
Gospel and the winning of souls. O let none of us fritter away our
existence. May we begin to live since Christ has died. May we
realize that because He died, we died to all the world, and because
He lives, we live in newness of life. Lord, we thank You for that
newness of life.

We praise Your name for a new heaven and a new earth. We bless You
that we now see what we never saw before and hear what we never
heard before. Oh! that we might enter the very secret place of
this inner life. May we have as much grace as can be obtained. May
we become perfect after the manner of Your servant Paul, but still
press forward, seeking still to be more and more conformed to the
image of Christ.

Lord, make us useful. Oh! let no believer live to himself. May we be
trying to bring others to Christ. May our employers, and coworkers,
and neighbors all know where we live, and if they do not understand
the secret of that life, yet may they see the fruit of that life and
may they ask, "What is this?" and inquire their way to Christ that
they may be sanctified too. O Lord, we pray You visit Your Church.
May none of us imagine that we are living aright unless we are
bringing others to the cross. Oh! keep us from worldliness. Keep us
much in prayer. Keep us with the light of God shining on our
forehead. May we be a happy people, not because we are screened from
affliction, but because we are walking in the light of God.

Again, we offer prayer for the many efforts that are scattered abroad
today. May they be good wherever they are. We pray for all churches.
Lord, revive them all. Wherever Christ is preached, may it be proved
that He draws all men unto Him. May the preaching of Christ today be
peculiarly efficacious. Oh! that You would raise up many that would
preach Christ, simply, boldly, and with the Holy Ghost sent down
from heaven. Send us better days. Send us days of refreshing from
the Your presence.

Lord, shake the earth with Your power. Oh! that the lands may hear
Your Word and live. But first convert the Church and then You will
convert the world. Oh! deal with those that depart from the faith
and grieve Your Holy Spirit. Bring them back again to their first
love and may Christ be fully and faithfully preached everywhere to
the glory of His name. Now forgive us every iniquity. Now lift us
beyond the power of every sin. Now lift us to pray and praise. Now
make the home full of sacred power and last of all, come, Lord
Jesus. This is the great wish of our souls. Even so, come quickly,
come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen and Amen.

