To Be Like Christ.

Blessed are You, O God, teach us Your statutes! Because You are the
infinitely blessed One, You can impart blessing, and You are
infinitely willing to do so, and therefore do we approach You with
great confidence, through Jesus Christ Your Son, whom You have made
blessed forevermore.

Oh! hear You the voice of Your servants this day and according to
Your infinite love and wisdom answer You us, according to Your
riches in glory, by Christ Jesus.

First, we would confess before You, Oh God, the sin we have committed,
mourning over it. Touch each one's heart now with tenderness that
everyone of us may lament that You should even have a few things
against us, if they be but few, for in the great love of our blessed
Master Jesus said to His churches, "Nevertheless, I have a few
things against You." Oh Lord if You have so kept us by Your grace
that there have been but a few things against us, yet help us to
mourn them much. Oh, Infinite Love, can we sin against You at all?
How debased is our nature then! Forgive, sweet Savior, forgive sins
against Your love and blood, against Your wounds and death, and give
us Your Spirit, Oh Savior, more fully, that we may live Your life
while we are here among the sons of men, for as You are, even so
also are we in this world, and we wish the parallel to become more
close and perfect every day!

Forgive those who have never felt the guilt of sin, who are living
in it, who are carnally minded, who are therefore dead. O, quicken
by Your divine Spirit. Take away the pleasure which they feel in
sin. Deliver them from being the bond slaves of it. Oh! we know the
sorrow of sometimes being captured by it, but still, we are not yet
slaves. The Holy Spirit, the life of God, in Jesus Christ, has made
us free from the law of sin and death. O, deliver others. Bring them
up out of the horrible pit of sin. Deliver them from the death of
their natures and save them by the Holy Spirit, and apply the
precious blood of Jesus to their hearts and consciences.

And, Lord, hear us who are Your children, in whom the Spirit bears
witness with our spirit, that we are Your children. Hear us while we
bring before You our daily struggles. Blessed be Your name, there
are some sins which You have helped us to overcome and now they are
trodden beneath our feet with many a tear that we ever should have
been in bondage to them. And oh, there are rebellions within our
nature still. We think that we are getting holy and behold we
discover that we are under the power of pride, that we are
self-conceited about ourselves. Lord help us to master pride.

And then when we try to be humble before You, we find ourselves
falling into inaction and apathy. Lord, kill slothfulness within us
and never let us find a pillow in the doctrines of grace for ease
while yet a single sin remains. Besides, great God, the raging lusts
of the flesh will sometimes pounce upon us like wild beasts. Help us
to be very watchful lest by any means we be torn and rent by them.
Oh keep us, we beg You, Lord, for without Your keeping we cannot
keep ourselves.

Alas! we are even sometimes subject to unbelief. If trials come
which we do not expect or if the body grows faint, how liable are we
to begin to doubt the faithful promise and so grieve the Holy
Spirit. Lord, we cannot bear this. We cannot bear this. It is not
enough for us that our garments are clean and that we walk uprightly
before men. We long to walk before You in such a way that there will
be nothing to grieve Your Spirit, nothing to vex the tender love of
our Beloved Jesus Christ. O, come, divine Spirit, and exercise Your
cleansing power upon us according to Your promise, "I will cleanse
Your blood which I have not cleansed, saith the Lord, that dwelleth
in Zion."

Oh that everything might help us towards purity, for we crave after
it. We mind the things of the Spirit and there is groaning within us
to be utterly delivered from the things of the flesh, that we may in
spirit, soul, and body, be a cleansed temple fit for the indwelling
of the Holy One of Israel. Lord help us, we pray You, in our daily
life, to be as Christ. If Jesus was a man of sorrows, may there be
that luster about our sorrow which there was about His in patience
and holy submission to the divine law. If Jesus was a man of
activity, may our activity be like His, for He "went about doing
good." May we seek the good of those around us in all ways and the
glory of our God. We wish that the zeal of Your house would eat us
up, that we should be full of sacred warmth, that our lips were
touched with the live coal from Your alter so that there be a fire
in us perpetually flaming and burning, and ourselves a living
sacrifice unto You oh God.

Bless us, we pray You, as to our example and influence. May it
always be of a pleasant kind. May there be a sweetness and light
about us which all must be obliged to perceive. Not for our honor
would we crave this, but that our light may so shine before men that
they may "see our good works and glorify You Our Father which is in
heaven." Lord grant us this!

We beg You, bless the unconverted among us. Bring them in, dear
Savior, bring them in. Help the living among us to compel them to
come in that Your house may be filled. May something of a sacred
compulsion be used that they may not be left outside to starve in
the highways and hedges but be brought into the Gospel feast.

Lord bless our country at this time. Will You be gracious unto those
who have the helm of affairs that during great difficulty,
they may be wise and gracious directed by your hand. God bless the
president with every mercy and let all that are in authority share
the divine favor. Bless other countries, too, for whom we do most
earnestly pray, especially for our brethren in Christ throughout the
earth, blessing and praising You. We have so many abroad, not only
of our own kin by nationality, but also brothers and sisters in
Christ. Lord bless the Church in the hostile nations. Do not fail to
remember the struggling ones and all the missionaries that are
laboring in the foreign field.

O, Savior, let Your kingdom come. When will this earth be delivered
from the incubus of superstition and of infidelity? Oh, that You
would hear creation's groans and come quickly. Oh, You great
Deliverer, joy of the earth are You, the expected of the tribes of
Israel still. Come, we beg You, Your absent love, Your dear unknown,
You the fairest of ten thousand. Come a second time to earth and to
the sons of men and especially to Your Bride, the Church. Even so,
come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen.

