Oh For More Grace.

Our Father, You do hear us when we pray. You have provided an
advocate and intercessor in heaven now. We cannot come to You unless
Your Holy Spirit will suggest desire and help us while we plead. We
would ask that the subject which caused such conflict to Paul may be
beyond conflict with us. May we know Jesus Christ and have Him to be
our all in all. We would have the conflict about others, but may we
be past it for ourselves. Jesus is everything to us, more than all
in Him we find. We do accept You, Lord Jesus, to be made unto us
wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. We will not
look out beyond You for anything, for everything is in You. Our sin
is pardoned. Our sinful nature is subdued. We have a perfect
righteousness. We have an immortal life. We have a sure hope. We
have an immovable foundation. Why should we look beyond You? Why
should we look within ourselves, knowing that You shalt be the only
well from which we will draw the living water, the only foundation
upon which we will build. We would thrust out new rootlets this day
and take fresh hold on the blessed soil in which grace has planted
us.

Oh Savior, reveal Yourself anew, teach us a little more, help us to
go a little deeper into the divine mystery. May we grip You and
grasp You. May we suck out of You the nutriment of our spirit. May
we be in You as a branch is in the stem and may we bear fruit from
You. Without You we can do nothing.

Forgive, we pray You, Your servants, any wanderings during the past.
If we have forgotten You, forget not us. If we have acted apart from
You, forgive the act. Blot out our sin. Help us in the future to
live only as we live in You, to speak, and even to think, as in
union with our living Head of the body. Take away from us all life
which is contrary to the life of Christ. Bring us into complete
subjection in Him, until for us to live will be Christ in every
single act of life. May we walk humbly with You oh God in joyful
faith in the finished work of Jesus.

Savior, look on Your beloved ones and give blessings according to
our necessities. We cannot pray a prayer that would comprise all,
but You can, our Great Intercessor, plead for each one and get for
each one of us the blessing wanted. Are we depressed? Give us
stronger faith. Have we become worldly? Pardon this great offense
and lead us more into spiritual things. Have we become joyous, but
have forgotten the source of true Joy? Lord, sweeten and savor that
joy with the sweet perfume of Your own presence. Have we to preach
and do we feel weak? Oh! be our strength. Are we engaged in the
Sunday school and have we seen little success? Lord, teach us how to
teach. Give us our boys and girls to be our spiritual reward. Are we
sickly? Have we those that vex us because they are unholy and
ungodly? This, indeed, is a terrible trial to many. Lord, help them,
both in their personal sickness and in this great spiritual trouble.
Have we dear ones whom we love with all our hearts, who weaken
before our eyes? Lord, have pity upon them and restore them, and
give them patience to bear pain and give us resignation to Your will
in all matters. Whatever the trial of Your servants, make a way of
escape that we may be able to bear it. Our great concern, however,
is to grow in grace and to become like You our Master and Savior
Lord Jesus. We struggle and we struggle, but how small our progress!
Lord, help us in any matter in which we have felt defeated. If we
have been betrayed through want of watchfulness, Lord forgive and
help us another time. If any of Your servants have lost the
brightness of their evidence, give them to come to You Lord Jesus as
sinners if they cannot come as saints. And if through Satan's
temptation any are sorely subject to attacks, so hard they struggle
even to keep their feet, hold them up, and if any have fallen, help
them to say, "Rejoice not against me, O, my enemy; when I fall I
shall arise."

Now look in great mercy upon those who are unconverted. Lord, save
them. Some are quite careless. Lord, they are dead. Come and quicken
them. We cannot see, but You can. Oh! that some of the most obdurate
and hardened might be softened by the touch of Your Spirit this very
day and may others who are not careless, but who are even seeking
after eternal life, but who are going the wrong way to work, may
they be shown their error, may they be led in the way by You, may
they look, and looking, live. We know how many of them are wanting
to be this and that before they take Christ to be all in all. May
they cease their seeking by finding everything in You Christ Jesus.
As You are a prayer-hearing God and a God of pardon, issue many a
pardon from Your heavenly court today, sealed with the Redeemer's
blood, signed with Your name oh God. Oh! today, Lord, do not let men
and women grow old in sin, lest they die in their sins. Save them
with an everlasting salvation.

God bless our country and our president. God bless this city. May
there be no disquietude between the different orders of men --- the
employer and the employed, but may there be a general spirit of
goodwill given to the people of this city, and we ask You to prosper
us.

Remember all people, especially the poor, the homeless, the widows
and the fatherless, and any that are depressed in spirit, whose
depression tends to the failure of reason. The Lord restore them and
such as are dying. Oh Lord, let them not die without hope and may
Your believing people learn to pass away without even tasting the
bitterness of death. May they enter into rest, each one walking in
his own uprightness.

Save this age from its own intellectual pride. Rise up above the
distractions of technology and entertainment. Give back the spirit
of simple faith in Christ, for we desire His glory. "For Yours is
the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever and ever. Amen."

