God's Unspeakable Gift.

Oh LORD, many of us feel like the lame man at the Beautiful Gate of
the temple. Come by this way and make the lame ones perfectly sound.
Oh Lord, You can do by Your servants today what You did by them in
the olden times. Work miracles of mercy even upon outer court
worshippers who are too lame to get into the holy place.

But there are many who feel like that man when he was restored. We
would follow You our Restorer, the Prince of Life, into the temple,
leaping and walking and praising God. Lord Jesus, You have gone into
the temple in the highest sense, up to the throne of God. Jesus
climbs and we would follow also, up the steps of the temple one by
one. We would come nearer and nearer to Your throne Oh God.

Oh Lord, You have done such great things for us that we feel the
drawings of Your love as described in Your Word --- "The Lord hath
appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loved thee with an
everlasting love, therefore, with lovingkindness have I drawn thee."

Draw us nearer, Lord, draw us into the inner Sanctuary. Draw us
within the place which once was hidden by the veil which Christ has
rent. Bring us right up to the throne of grace and where we can
behold Your glory Oh God above the Mercy Seat. May we have communion
with You the Most High. Heal all our diseases and forgive us all our
trespasses.

Still, Lord, though healed of a former lameness so that we now have
strength, we need a further touch from You. We are so apt to get
dull and stupid. Come and help us, Lord Jesus. A vision of Your face
will brighten us, but to feel Your Spirit touching us will make us
vigorous. Oh! for the leaping and the walking of the man born lame.
May we today dance with holy joy like David before the Ark of the
Covenant. May a holy exhilaration take possession of every part of
us. May we be glad in You Oh Lord. May our mouth be filled with
laughter and our tongue with singing, "For the Lord hath done great
things for us whereof we are glad."

Today help Your people to put on Christ. May we live as those who
are alive from the dead, for He is the quickening Spirit and may we
feel Him to be so. Is any part of us still dead, Lord, quicken it.
May the life which has taken possession of our heart take possession
of our head. May the brain be active in holy thought. May our entire
being, indeed, respond to the new life Christ has given and may we
live in that newness of life.

We fall on our faces and worship Your Son today. It is such a
wonder that Jesus should have loved us, and He has done such
wonderful things for us and in us that we may still call Him that
unspeakable gift. He is unspeakably precious to our souls. You know
all things, Lord. You know that we love You. May that love bubble up
today like a boiling cauldron. May our hearts overflow and if we
cannot speak what we feel, may that holy silence be eloquent with
the praise of God.

Lord, send Your life throughout the entire Church. Lord, visit Your
Church, restore sound doctrine, restore holy and earnest living.
Take away from professors their apparent love for frivolities, their
attempts to meet the world on its own ground, and give back the old
love to the doctrines of the cross, the doctrines of the Christ, and
once more may free grace and dying love be the music that refreshes
the Church and make her heart exceedingly glad.

Just now when the earth is waking up to life, Lord, wake up dead
hearts and if there are seeds of grace lying dormant in any soul,
may they begin to bud. May the bulb down at the heart send forth its
golden cup and drink in of the light, the life you give Oh God. Oh!
save today. Let your Holy word be fulfilled --- "Your King in the
midst of You is mighty: He will save." Our very heart is speaking
now much more loudly and sweetly than our lips can speak. Lord save
sinners. Great High Priest, have compassion on the ignorant and such
as are out of the way. Great Shepherd of the sheep, gather the lambs
within Your arm. Find out the lost sheep. Throw them on Your
shoulders and bring them home rejoicing.

We ask that everywhere there may be great numbers added to the
Church. You who did bring in five thousand so soon, bring in five
thousand in many and many a place. We read the statistics of Your
Church with great sorrow. How small an increase! Lord, multiply us
with men as with a flock. Increase the people and increase the joy.
Make us to joy before You as the joy of harvest.

Lord, we pray for our country with all our heart and as You
commanded us we pray for those in authority, for the president, for
the Congress and Courts, for all governors and mayors and all those
in authority. We pray also for the poorest and the down-trodden, the
homeless. Lord look upon the poor of this world and make them rich
in faith, and comfort them in heart by the Holy Ghost. The Lord save
this nation. Let Your light and Your truth go forth to the most
distant parts of the earth. "Let the people praise You; Oh God let
all the people, praise You." Give us the times of refreshing. May
we have a visit from Christ by the power of His Spirit and until
Jesus comes again may there be a blessed sunny time of peace and
salvation.

"Your kingdom come, Your will be done, on earth, as it is in
heaven." And do You come Yourself, great King. May our eyes, if it
please You, behold You on earth, but if not, if we fall asleep on
some blessed day, we can say, "I know that my Redeemer lives; and
though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh will
I see God."

Bless every Sunday school teacher, every tract distributor, every
open-air preacher. Bless, we pray You, all Christian doctors and
nurses, deacons and missionaries, workers, and volunteers of the
Mission, Bible readers, and all others who in any way seek to bring
men to faith in Christ. Oh God the Holy Spirit, work mightily, we
pray You. Flood the world with a baptism of Your power and "Let the
whole earth be filled with a knowledge of the Lord as the waters
cover the sea." We ask all in that dear name of Jesus which made
the lame man whole, which is sweet to You Oh God in heaven and dear
to us below; and unto Father, Son, and Holy Ghost be glory, world
without end. Amen.

