The Great Sacrifice.

Oh God our Father, we do remember well when we were called to You,
with many sweet and wooing voices, we were bidden to return. You did
Yourself hang out the lights of mercy that we might know the way
home and Your dear Son Himself came down to seek us. But we wandered
still. It brings the tears to our eyes to think that we should have
been so foolish and so wicked, for we often extinguished the light
within and conscience we tried to harden, and we sinned against light
and knowledge with a high hand against You our God.

You have often brought us very low even to our knees and we cried
for mercy, but we rose to sin again. Blessed was that day when You
did strike the blow of grace --- the effectual blow. Then did You
reveal our true condition and all our perfection was rolled in the
dust. We saw ourselves to be slain by the law, to be lost, ruined,
and undone, and then we rolled to and fro in the tempests of our
thoughts and staggered like drunkards and were at our wits' end ---
then did we cry unto You in our trouble, and blessed be Your name
forever, You did deliver us.

Oh happy day that sealed our pardon with the precious blood of Jesus
accepted by faith. We would recall the memory of that blessed season
by repeating it. We come again now to the cross whereon the Savior
bled. We give another look of faith to Him. We trust we never take
away our eyes off Jesus, but if we have done so, we would look anew.
We would gaze into the body of the Son of God, pierced with nails,
parched with thirst, bleeding, dying, because "It pleased You
Father to bruise Him; You hath put Him to grief."

Lord God, we see in Your crucified Son a sacrifice for sin. We see
how You have made Him to be sin for us that we might be made the
righteousness of You Oh God in Him and we do over again accept Him
to be everything to us. This is the victim by whose blood the
covenant is made through faith. This is that Paschal Lamb by the
sprinkling of whose blood all Israel is secured, for You have said,
"When I see the blood, I will pass over you." This is the blood
which gives us access into that which is within the veil. This is
the blood which now to our souls is drink indeed and we do rejoice
in the joy which this new wine of the covenant hath given unto our
spirits.

We would take afresh the cup of salvation and call upon the name of
the Lord. We would pay our vows now in the midst of all the Lord's
people and in the courts of His house, and this is a part payment of
our vow that we bless the Lord Jesus who hath put away our sin. We
bless Him that He hath redeemed us unto Himself not with corruptible
things as silver and gold, but with His own precious blood and we do
avow ourselves today to be the Lord's.

We are not our own. We are bought with a price. Lord Jesus, renew
Your grasp of us, take us over again, for we do even with greater
eagerness than ever before, surrender ourselves to You, and so "Bind
the sacrifice with cords, even with cords to the horns of the
altar." Oh Lord, we are Your servants and the sons and daughters of
Your handmaid. You have loosed our bonds. The Lord lives, and
blessed be my Rock. Henceforth within that Rock I hide myself. For
Him I live. Lord enable all Your people with sincere hearts, with
undivided hearts, again to give themselves up to Jesus, and do You
set in them anew the marks and tokens of Your possession until every
one of us will say as many of us can say, "From henceforth let no
man trouble me; for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus
Christ."

We bless You, Lord, for that mark to which some of us can look back
with much joy. It is not in our hand, nor in our forehead, nor on
our foot, nor on our heart alone. Our whole body has been buried
with Christ in baptism unto death and now the whole body, soul, and
spirit, by our willing consecration, belong unto Christ henceforth
and forever.

Our Father, there is one prayer which has kept rising to our lip
even while we have been speaking to You. It comes from our heart. It
is, bring others to Yourself. Have You not said, Oh God of Jacob,
"Yet will I gather others unto Him that have not been gathered?"
Have You not given to Your Son the heathen for His inheritance and
the uttermost parts of the earth for His possession? Lord, give Your
Son the reward of His travail. Give Him a part of that reward this
day wherever He is preached. Oh! that some might be moved with the
love of Christ.

Lord, some know not who You are. Convince them of Your deity and
Your power to save. Lord, many of them do not think. They live as if
they were to die and there would be an end of them. Oh divine
Spirit, convince them of judgment to come. Set before each careless
eye that day of terrible pomp when for every idle word that men
will speak they must give an account. Oh divine Spirit, teach
unreasonable men true reason. Teach the obdurate sensitivity. Look
on them, Jesus, just as You did on those of the synagogue, not with
anger, but still being grieved because of the hardness of their
hearts and said --- "Father, forgive them, they know not what they
do," and bring many, many, many this very day to Your dear feet
that were nailed to the cross. Oh! how we long for it. Deny us what
You will, only bring sinners to Yourself.

Lord Jesus, You are physically gone from us. We rejoice in this
fact, for You have taught us that it is expedient for us that You
should go and that the Comforter should be with us, but oh! let us
not miss or take for granted that promised presence of the
Comforter. May He be here to help us in all works of faith and
labors of love, and may we feel that He has come among us and is
dwelling with us because He is convincing the world of sin, of
righteousness, and of judgment to come.

Oh Spirit of God, bring men to accept the great propitiation, to see
their sin washed away in the purple flood whose fount was opened
when the heart of Christ was pierced, and may blood-washed sinners
begin to sing on earth that everlasting anthem which will be sung
by all the redeemed in heaven.

We beg You now, Lord, to look upon all Your people and grant
everyone a blessing. Some are in great trouble. Deliver them, we
pray You. Others may be in great peril, though they have no trouble.
The Lord save His people from the evils and dangers of prosperity.
It may be some of Your own people find it hard to worship because of
worldly cares and responsibilities. May they be able, like Abraham,
when the birds came down upon the sacrifice, to drive them away.

Oh Spirit of God, make us all more holy. Work in us more completely
to conform to the image of Christ. We do long to be as the Lord
Jesus Christ in spirit and temper, and in unselfishness of life.
Give us the character of Christ, we pray You. We crave the
redemption from the power of sin that was purchased with the blood
of Jesus and pray that we may receive it daily. Let the whole
militant Church be blessed. Put power into all faithful ministries.
Convert this country. Save it from abounding sin. Let all the
nations of the earth know the Lord, but especially bless those
nations that speak the name of Jesus, where our same Lord and Christ
is worshipped this day after the same fashion.

Lord bless Your people. Bring the Church to break down all bonds of
nationality, all limits of sects, and may we feel the blessed unity
which is the very glory of the Church. Yes Lord, let the whole earth
be filled with Your glory. Our prayer can never cease until we reach
this point, "Your Kingdom come, Your will be done, on earth as it
is in heaven." Nothing less than this can we ask for. And now hear
us as we pray for the president and all in authority, and ask Your
blessing to rest upon this land, and let Your blessing extend over
all the family of faith. We ask it for Christ's sake. Amen.

