Boldness At The Throne Of Grace.

Oh God! we would not speak to You as from a distance, nor stand like
trembling Israel under the law at a distance from the burning
mountain, for we have not come unto Mount Sinai, but unto Mount Zion
and that is a place for holy joy and thankfulness, and not for
terror and bondage. Blessed be Your name, Oh Lord! We have learned
to call You "Our Father, which are in heaven"; so there is
reverence, for You are in heaven, but there is sweet familiarity,
for You are our Father.

We would draw very near to You now through Jesus Christ the Mediator
and we would be bold to speak to You as a man speaks with his
friend, for have You have said by Your Spirit, "Let us come boldly
unto the throne of the heavenly grace." We might well start away
and flee from Your face if we only remembered our sinfulness. Lord!
we do remember it with shame and sorrow. We are grieved to think we
should have offended You, should have neglected so long Your sweet
love and tender mercy, but we have now returned unto the "shepherd
and bishop of our souls." Led by such grace, we look to Jesus who
we crucified and we have mourned for Him and then have mourned for
our sin.

Now, Lord, we confess our guilt before You with tenderness of heart
and we pray You seal home to every believer here that full and free,
that perfect and irreversible charter of forgiveness which You
gave to all them that put their trust in Jesus Christ. Lord! You
have said it, "If we confess our sins, You are merciful and just to
forgive us our sins and to save us from all unrighteousness." There
is the sin confessed. There is the ransom accepted. We therefore
know we have peace with You Oh God and we bless that glorious one
who came "to finish transgression, to make an end of sin," to
bring in everlasting righteousness, which righteousness by faith we
take unto ourselves and You impute unto us.

Now, Lord, will You be pleased to cause all Your children's hearts
to dance within them for joy? Oh! help Your people to come and fall
in love with Jesus again today. May we be looking unto Him today as
we did at the first. May we never take off our eyes from His divine
person, from His infinite merit, from His finished work, from His
living power, or from the expectancy of His speedy coming to "judge
the world in righteousness and the people with His truth."

Bless all Your people with some special gift and if we might make a
choice of one, it would be this, "Quicken us, Oh Lord, according to
Your Word." We have life. Give it to us more abundantly. Oh, that
we might have so much life that out of the midst of us there might
flow rivers of living water. Lord make us useful. Do, dear Savior,
use the very least among us. Take the one talent and let it be put
out to interest for the furtherance of Your Kingdom. May it please
You to show each one of us what You would have us to do. In our
families, in our business, in the walks of ordinary life may we be
serving You Lord and may we often speak a word in Jesus' name, and
help in some way to scatter the light among the ever-growing
darkness, and when we go from here, may we have sown some seed which
we will bring with us on our shoulders in the form of sheaves of
blessing.

Oh God! bless our Sunday schools and give a greater interest in such
work, that there may be no lack of men and women who will be glad
and happy in the work of teaching the young. Do impress this, we
pray You, upon Your people just now. Move men who have gifts and
ability also to preach the Gospel. There are many that live in
places where no Gospel preaching has reached them. Lord! set them
preaching themselves. Will You move some hearts so powerfully that
their tongues cannot be quiet any longer and may they attempt in
some way, either personally or by supporting someone, to bring the
Gospel into dark places of our city that the people may know the
truth.

Oh Lord! stir up the dwellers in this great, great city. Oh! arouse
us to the spiritual destitution of the masses. Oh God, help us all
by some means, by any means, by every means to get at the ears of
the community for Christ's sake so that we may reach their hearts.
We would send up an exceeding great and bitter cry to You on behalf
of the millions that enter no place of worship on Sunday, but rather
violate its sanctity and despise its blessed message. Lord! wake up
these United States, we beg You. Send us another Jonah. Send us
another John the Baptist. Oh! that the Christ Himself would send
forth multitudes of laborers among this thick standing corn, for the
harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Oh God! save
this city. Save this state. Save this country. Save all nations and
let Your kingdom come. May every knee bow and confess that Jesus
Christ is Lord.

Our most earnest prayers go up to heaven to You now for great
sinners, for men and women that are polluted and depraved by the
filthiest of sins. With sovereign mercy make a raid among them. Come
and capture some of these that they may become great lovers of Him
that will forgive them and may they become great champions for the
cross.

Lord, look upon the multitudes of rich people in this city that know
nothing about the Gospel and do not wish to know. Oh! that somehow
the poor rich might be rich with the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Lord,
look to the multitudes of scholarly people, smart in the engineering
of Your creations, but clueless as to the Creator. Reveal Yourself
by the microscope and telescope and bring someone to show them the
Way to redemption. And then, Lord, look upon the multitude of the
poor and the working classes that think religion to be a perfectly
unnecessary thing for them. Do, by some means we pray You, get them
to think and bring them to listen that faith may come by hearing and
hearing by the Word of God.

Above all, Oh Holy Spirit, descend more mightily. Would, God, would
You flood the land until there should be streams of righteousness,
for is there not a promise, "I will pour water upon him that is
thirsty and floods upon the dry ground." Lord, set Your people
praying. Stir up the Church to greater prayerfulness.

Now, as You have commanded us, we pray for the people among whom we
dwell. We pray for those in authority in the land, asking every
blessing for the president and Your guidance and direction to the
Congress, Your benediction to all judges, governors, and mayors and
also upon the homeless, the poorest of the poor and the lowest of
the low. Lord, bless the people of this land. Let the people praise
You, Oh God! Yes, let all the people praise You, for Jesus Christ's
sake. Amen and Amen.

