The Presence Of God.

Our Father, which are in heaven, our hearts are full of gratitude to
You for Your Word. We bless You that we have it in our houses, that
You have given to many of us to understand it and to enjoy it.
Although yet we know not what we will know, yet have we learned
from it what we never can forget that which has changed our lives
has removed our burdens, has comforted our hearts, has set our faces
like flints against sin and made us eager after perfect holiness.

We thank You, Lord, for every leaf of the Bible, not only for its
promises which are inexpressibly sweet, but for its precepts in
which our soul delights and especially for the revelation of Your
Son, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Oh God, we thank You for the
manifestation of Him even in the types and shadows of the Old
Testament. These are inexpressibly glorious to us, full of wondrous
value, inexpressibly dear because in them and through them we see
Jesus. But we bless You much more for the clear light of the New
Testament, for giving us the key to all the secrets of the Old
Testament, for now, reading the Scriptures of the New Covenant, we
understand the language of the Old Covenant and are made to joy and
to rejoice in them.

Father, we thank You for our Bibles and the labor in the
translations. We thank You for the glorious Christ, the God whom the
Bible reveals as our Savior, and now we thank You for the Blessed
Spirit, for without His light upon the understanding, we should have
learned nothing. You taught us the letter kills, it is the Spirit
that giveth life. Blessed are our eyes that have been touched with
heavenly eye-salve. Blessed are the hearts that have been softened,
that have been made ready to receive the truth in the love of it!
Blessed be the sovereign grace of You Oh God that chosen unto Jesus
a people who delight in Your Word and who meditate in it both day and
night!

Our hearts are full of praises to You Oh God for this Word of Truth,
for this unmeasured wealth of holy knowledge. Lord make us to enjoy
it more and more. May we feed upon this manna; may we drink from
this well of life. May we be satisfied with it and by it be made
like unto the image of Jesus from whom this Word became flesh and
dwelt among us.

And now, Lord, our prayer is to You at the mention of Your sacred
Word, that You would write it upon the fleshy tablets of our heart
more fully. We want to know the truth so that the truth will may
make us free. We want to feel the truth that we may be sanctified by
it. Oh! let it be in us a living seed which will produce in us a
life acceptable before You Oh God, a life which will be seen in
everything that we do, for we remember that You are not the God of
the dead but of the living.

Lord, we ask that Your Word may chasten us whenever we go astray,
may it enlighten us whenever for a moment we get into darkness. May
Your Word be the supreme ruler of our being. May we give ourselves
up to its sacred law to be obedient to its every hint, wishing in
all things, even in the least things, to do Your will from the heart
and having every thought brought into captivity to the mind of the
Holy Spirit.

Bless Your people. Bless them in this way by saturating them with
the Word of Your truth. Oh Lord, they are out in the world so much.
Oh! grant that the world may not take them away from You our God.
May they get the world under their feet. Let them not be buried in
it, but may they live upon it, treading it beneath their feet, the
spiritual getting the mastery always over the material. Oh! that
Your Word might be within us when we are in the midst of an ungodly
generation. May the Proverbs often furnish us with wisdom, the
Psalms furnish us with comfort, the Gospels teach us the way of
holiness, and the Epistles instruct us in the deep things of Your
kingdom.

Lord, educate us for a higher life and let that life begin here. May
we be always in the classroom, always disciples, and when we are out
in the world, may we be trying to put in practice what we have
learned at Jesus' feet. What Jesus tells us in darkness, may we
proclaim in the light and what He whispers in our ear in the
closets, may we sound forth upon the rooftops.

Oh! dear, dear Savior, what could we do without You. We are as yet
in banishment, we have not come into the land of light and glory. It
is on the other side the river, in the land where You dwell, Your
land of Immanuel, and until we can come to you, You be with us. We
have said unto ourselves, How will we live without our Lord and
then we have said unto You, "If Your Spirit go not with us, carry
us not up hence." Oh! be to us this day as the fiery cloudy pillar
that covered all the camp of Israel. May we dwell in You Oh God. May
we live and move in You Oh God. May we be conscious of Your presence
to a greater extent than we are conscious of anything else.

Bless the churches. Look on them, Lord. Cast an eye of love upon the
little gatherings of the faithful wherever they may be and help them
and their pastors, and may the churches be in every place a light in
the midst of this crooked and perverse generation. Oh God, we are
waiting and watching for a display of Your great power among the
people.

It is an age of great luxury and great sin and gross departures from
the truth. We beg You, defend Your own. When Your Ark was carried
captive among the Philistines and set up in the temple of Dagon,
Dagon fell before it, then did You smite Your adversaries in the
hinder parts and put them to a perpetual reproach, and You can do
the like again, and we pray it may be so. Oh! for the stretched out
hand of God. We are longing to see it in the conversion of great
multitudes by the Gospel, that those who have said, "Aha, aha, the
Gospel has lost its power," may be made foolish by the wisdom of
Christ, even as Jannes and Jambres were made foolish when they could
not do so with their enchantments, but You Oh God was with His
servant Moses.

O, Jehovah, You are the true God, God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of
Jacob, You are our God forever and ever. You will be our guide even
unto death. You who spoke by the apostles, speak again by Your
servants, and let Your Word be with as much power now as when You
said, "Let there be light, and there was light." Oh! for the
lifting up of Your voice! Let confusion and darkness once again hear
Your voice, our Creator, that makes order and that gives life. Oh!
how we desire You stirred up, our gracious God. Our prayers would
take the form of that ancient one, "Awake, awake, put on Your
strength." Are You not the God that cut Egypt down and wounded the
crocodile? Have You not the same power still to smite and to
vindicate Your own truth and deliver Your own redeemed?

Oh Lamb, slain from before the foundation of the world, You are
still to sit upon the throne, for He that is on the throne looks
like a Lamb that has been newly slain. Oh Jesus, we beg You, take to
Yourself Your great power. Divide the spoil with the strong. Take
the purchase of Your precious blood and rule from the river even
unto the ends of the earth.

Here we are before You. Look on us in great pity. Lord, bless Your
own people. With favor do You encompass us as with a shield. Lord,
save the unsaved. In great compassion draw them by the attractive
magnet of the cross, draw them to Yourself, compel them to come in
that the wedding may be furnished with guests.

With one heart we put up our prayer on the behalf of the teachers of
the young. We thank You, Lord, that so many men and women are ready
to give their Sabbath's rest to this important service. Oh! grant
that zeal for teaching the young may never burn low in the Church.
May any that are taking no part in it and who ought to be, be
aroused at once to commence the holy effort. Bless the teachers of
the senior classes. May their young men and women pass into the
Church. May there be no gap between the school and the church.
Bridge that distance by Your sovereign grace. But equally bless the
teachers of the infants and of the younger children. May conversions
go on among the young. May there be multitudes of such conversions.
In effect, we would pray that no child may leave the Sunday schools
unsaved. Oh! save the children, great Lover of the little ones. You
who would have them suffered to come to You, we know You will not
forget them, but You will draw them and accept them. Lord! save the
children. Let all the Sunday schools participate in the blessing
which we seek and by this blessed agency, may this nation be kept
from heathenism, this city especially be preserved from its blatant
disregard of the Sabbath, and its carelessness about eternal things.
Oh! bless the Sunday schools in this city and the surrounding areas.
Let Jesus Christ be glorified among the little ones, and again may
there be heard loud hosannas in the streets of Jerusalem from the
babes and sucklings out of whose mouths You have ordained strength.
Lord be with these dear workers throughout today and make it a high
day, a festival of prayer and faith, a time when Jesus the Lord
will especially meet with them and bless them.

God bless our country! God bless our president! Grant guidance at
this time to all with regard to the political affairs of this
nation. Grant Your blessing to all ranks and conditions of men and
let every nation call You "blessed" Let all tongues speak the name
of Jesus and all the citizens own Him as Lord and King. We ask this
in Jesus' name. Amen.

