The Look Of Faith.

Our Father, we have listened to Your gracious words. Truly Your
paths are luxurious. Wherever You are, mercy abounds. Before Your
feet, rivers of grace spring up. When You come to us, it is with the
fullness of pardoning love. You have asked us to come to You and
seek You while You may be found. We would come now. May Your Holy
Spirit help us! May Jesus lead the way and be our Mediator now!

Blessed be Your name. There are many who sought Your face many years
ago. We have since then tasted that You are gracious, and we know by
a delightful experience that You indeed give milk and honey to such
as trust You. Oh! we wish we had known You earlier.

Lord, You have been full of truth and faithfulness to us throughout
every step of our journey and though You have not withheld the rod
of the covenant from us, we are as grateful this morning for the
kisses of Your lips. You have dealt well with Your servants
according to Your Word. Blessed be Your name forever and ever.

But there are some who have never come to You. They are hearers, but
hearers only. They have listened to gracious invitations many times,
but they have never accepted them. Say unto them, "Thereto have
thou gone, but no further shalt thou proceed in thy carelessness and
trifling. Here shalt thou stay and turn unto Your God." Oh Savior,
You have all power in heaven and earth, therefore You can through
the preaching of Your Word influence the hearts of men. Turn them
and they will be turned. Oh! do it this day.

We would now come in prayer, as we first came, would we come again.
We would renew our vows. We would again repeat our repentance and
our faith and then look at the brazen serpent and touch but the
border of Your garment. We would begin again. Oh Lord, help us to do
it in sincerity and truth. And first, we do confess that we are by
nature lost and by practice ruined. We are altogether as an unclean
thing and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. We would lie
at those dear pierced feet, bleeding at heart because of sin,
wounded, mangled, crushed by the fall and by our own transgression.
We confess that if You should number our sins upon us and deal with
us accordingly, we should be sent to the lowest hell.

We have no merit, no claim, no righteousness of our own. Oh! now,
dear Savior, we look up to You. Oh! that some might look for the
first time and those of us that have long looked would fix our happy
gaze again upon that blessed substitutionary sacrifice wherein is
all our hope. Dear Savior, we do take You to be everything to us,
our sin-bearer and our sin-destroyer. We have not a shadow of a
shade of a hope anywhere but in Yourself, Your life, Your death,
Your resurrection, Your ascension, Your glory, Your reign, Your
second advent. These are the only stars in our sky.

We look up to You and are filled with light. But Oh You dear, dear
Savior, we dare not turn to ordinances, we dare not turn to our own
prayers and tears and almsgivings. We dare not look to our own
works. We only look to You. Your wounds, Immanuel, these bleed the
balm that heals our wounds. Your crowned head, once encompassed with
thorns, Your body, once laid in the silent tomb, Your Godhead, once
covered and concealed from man, but now resplendent amidst
triumphant hosts. If we can perish trusting in You, we must perish,
but we know we cannot, for You have bound up our salvation with Your
glory and because You are a glorious Savior forever, none that trust
in You will ever be confounded.

But we do trust You now. If all our experience has been a
mistake, yet we will begin at the cross today or if we have never
had any experience of You before, we would begin today.

By Your agony and bloody sweat, by Your cross and passion, by Your
precious death and burial, we beg You, hear us now! We plead with
You for some that are not pleading for themselves, Oh Spirit of God,
let it not be so any longer. Now sweetly use Your key to open the
fast-closed door and come into hearts and dwell there that souls may
live. We have a thousand things to ask. We should like to plead for
our country and for all the nations. We should like to plead with
You for the sick and for the dying, for the poor and for the
fatherless. We have innumerable blessings to ask, but somehow, they
all go away from our prayer just now and this is our one cry, Save,
Lord, we beg You, even now send salvation! Come Holy Spirit to open
blind eyes and unstop deaf ears and quicken dead hearts.

Father, glorify Your Son that Your Son may glorify You. Holy Spirit,
do Your office and take of these things of Christ and reveal them
unto us. We gather up all our prayers in that salvation through the
blood of the Lamb. Amen.

