Deliver Us From Evil.

Oh God, let us not be formalists or hypocrites at this time in
prayer. We feel how easy it is to bow the head and cover the face
and yet the thoughts may be all astray, and the mind may be
wandering across our schedule, cares, and responsibilities, so that
there will be no real prayer at all. Come, Holy Spirit, help us to
feel that we are in the immediate presence of Almighty God and may
this thought lead us to sincere and earnest petitioning.

There are some who know not Jesus Christ. God is not in all their
thoughts. They make no reckoning of You, You glorious One, but do
their business and guide their lives as if there was no God in
heaven or in earth. Strike them now with a sense of Your presence.
Oh! that Your eternal power might come before their thoughts and now
may they join with Your reverent people in approaching Your Mercy
Seat.

We come for mercy, great God. It must always be our first request,
for we have sinned, sinned against a just and holy law of which our
conscience approves. We are evil, but Your law is holy and just and
good. We have offended knowingly. We have offended again and again.
After being chastened, we have still offended and even those of us
who are forgiven, who through Your rich love have been once for all
washed from every stain, yet have we sinned grievously and we
confess it with much shame and bitter self-reproach that we should
sin against such tender love, and against the indwelling of the Holy
Spirit, who is in Your children and who checks them and quickens
their consciences, so that they sin against light and knowledge when
they sin.

Wash us yet again. And when we ask for this washing, it is not
because we doubt the efficacy of former cleansing. Then we were
washed in blood. Now, Oh Savior, repeat upon us what You did to the
twelve when You did take a towel and basin and wash their feet. And
when that was done, You did tell them that he who had been washed
had no need save but to wash his feet. After that was done, he was
clean every bit. Oh! let Your children be in that condition this
morning --- clean every bit --- and may they know it and thus being
clean, may they have boldness to enter the Holy of Holies by
the blood of Christ and may they now come and stand where the
cherubim once were, where the glory still shines forth. And may we,
before a blood-besprinkled Mercy Seat, ourselves washed and
cleansed, pour out our prayers and praises.

As for those that never have been washed, we repeat our prayer for
them. Bring them, oh! bring them at once to a sense of sin. Oh! that
we might see them take their first complete bath and may they become
henceforth the blood-washed and blood-redeemed consecrated ones,
belonging forever unto Him who has made them white through His
atoning sacrifice.

And blessed Lord, since You permit Your washed ones to come close to
Yourself, we would approach You now with the courage which comes of
faith and love and ask of You this thing. Help us to overcome every
tendency to evil which is still within us and enable us to wear
armor of such proof that the arrows of the enemy from without may
not penetrate it, that we may not be wounded again by sin. Deliver
us, we pray You, from doubts within and fears without, from
depression of spirit, and from the outward assaults of the world.
Make us and keep us pure within and then let our life be conducted
with such holy jealousy and watchfulness that there may be nothing
about us that will bring dishonor to Your name. May those who most
carefully watch us see nothing but what will adorn the doctrine of
God our Savior in all things.

Lord, help Your people to be right as parents. May none of us spoil
our children. May there be no misconducted families to cry out
against us. Help us to be right as employers. May there be no
oppression, no hardness, and unkindness. Help us to be right as
employees. May there be no eye-service, no purloining, but may there
be everything that adorns the Christian character. Keep us right as
citizens. May we do all we can for our country and for the times in
which we live. Keep us right, we pray You, as citizens of the higher
country. May we be living for it, to enjoy its privileges, and to
bring others within its borders, that multitudes may be made
citizens of Christ through our means. Lord, help us to conduct
ourselves right as church members. May we love our Church family.
May we seek their good, their edification, their comfort, their
health. And oh! may such of us as are called to preach have grace
equal to that responsibility. Lord, make every Christian to be clear
of the blood of all those round about him. We know that there are
some who profess to be Your people, who do not seem to care one bit
about the souls of their fellow citizens. God forgive this
inhumanity to their community, this treason to the King of kings.
Rouse the Church, we pray You, to a tenderness of heart towards
those live among us.

Let all the churches feel that they are ordained to bless their
neighbors. Oh! that the Christian Church might begin to take upon
itself its true burden. Let the Church in this city especially, with
its mass of moral poverty and sin round about it, care for the
people and love the people, and may all Christians stir themselves
that something may be done for the good of souls and for the glory
of God. Lord, use us for Your glory. Shine upon us, Oh Emmanuel,
that we may reflect Your brightness. Dwell in us, Oh Jesus, that out
of us may come the power of Your life. Make Your Church to work
miracles, because the miracle-worker is in the midst of her. Oh!
send us times of revival, seasons of great refreshing, and then
times of aggression, when the army of the Lord of hosts will push
its way into the very center of the adversary and overthrow the foe
in the name of the King of kings. Now forgive Your servants all that
has been amiss and strengthen in Your servants all that is good and
right. Sanctify us to Your service and hold us to it. Comfort us
with Your presence. Elevate us into Your presence. Make us like
Yourself. Bring us near Yourself and in all things glorify Yourself
in us, whether we live or die.

Bless the poor, remember the needy among Your own people. Help them.
Bless the sick and be very near the dying. The Lord comfort them.

Bless our country, let every mercy rest upon the president. Send
peace to disquieted districts. Give wisdom to our congressmen in the
making and in the seeing to the keeping of the law. And may Your
kingdom come not here only, but in every land and nation. Lands
across the world, remember with the plenitude of Your grace. Let the
whole earth be filled with Your glory. We ask it for Jesus' sake.
Amen.

