The Washing Of Water By The Word.

Jehovah, our God, You love Your people, You have placed all the
saints in the hand of Jesus and You have given Jesus to be to them a
leader, a commander, and a husband and we know that You delight to
hear us cry on the behalf of Your Church for You care for Him and
You are ready to grant to Him according to the covenant provisions
which You have laid up in store for Christ Jesus. Therefore, would
we begin this prayer by asking You to behold and visit the vine and
the vineyard which Your right hand planted. Look upon Zion the city
of our earnestness. Look upon those whom You have chosen from before
the foundation of the world, whom Christ hath redeemed with blood,
whose hearts He has won and holds, and who are His own though they
be in the world.

Holy Father, keep Your people, we beg You, for Jesus' sake Though
they are in the world, let them not be of it, but may there be a
marked distinction between them and the rest of mankind. Even as
their Lord was holy, harmless, and undefiled, and separate from
sinners, so may it be with believers in Christ. May they follow Him
and may they not know the voice of strangers, but come out from the
rest that they may follow Him without the camp.

We cry to You for the preservation of Your Church in the world and
especially for her purity. Oh Father, keep us, we beg You with all
keeping, that the evil one touch us not. We will be tempted, but
let him not prevail against us. In a thousand ways, he will lay
snares for our feet, but oh! deliver us as a bird from the snare of
the fowler. May the snare be broken that we may escape. Let not Your
Church suffer dishonor at any time, but may her garments be always
white. Let not such as come in among her that are not of her utterly
spoil her. Oh Christ, as You did groan concerning Judas, so may Your
children cry to You concerning any that have fallen aside into
crooked ways, lest the cause of Christ in the earth should be
dishonored. Oh God, cover, we beg You, with Your feathers all the
people of Christ and keep Your Church even until Jesus will come
Who, having loved His own that were in the world, loves them even to
the end.

We would ask just now that we may be washed as to our feet. We trust
You have bathed us once for all in the sin-removing fountain. You
have also washed us in the waters of regeneration and given us the
renewing of our minds, through Jesus Christ, but Oh for daily
cleansing. Do You see any fault in us? Yes, we know that You do.
Wash us that we may be clean. Are we deficient in any virtue? Oh!
supply it that we may exhibit a perfect character to Your glory who
has made us anew in Christ Jesus. Or is there something that would
be good if not carried to excess? Please modify it lest one virtue
should slaughter another and we should not be the image of Christ
completely.

Oh Lord and Master, You who did wash Your disciples' feet of old,
still be very patient toward us, very condescending towards our
provoking faults, and go on with us, we pray You, till Your great
work will be completed, and we will be brethren of the First Born,
like unto Him. Gracious Master, we wish to conquer self in every
respect. We desire to live for the glory of God and the good of our
fellow men. We would have it true of us as of our Master, "He saved
others, Himself He cannot save." Will You enable us especially to
overcome the body with all its affections and lusts. May the flesh
be kept under. Let no appetite of any kind of the grosser sort
prevail against us, lest we be dishonored and unclean. And let not
even the most refined power of the natural mind be permitted to come
so forward as to mar the dominion of Your Holy Spirit within us.

Oh! help us not to be so easily moved even by pain, may we have much
patience, and let not the prospect of death ever cause us any fear,
but may the Holy Spirit get so much the mastery of the body that we
know nothing can truly hurt our soul. The inner newborn cannot be
smitten, nor is it to die. It is holy, incorruptible, and lives and
abide forever in the life that is in Christ Jesus.

Oh! for a complete conquest of self. Especially render us insensible
to praise, lest we be too sensitive to censure. Let us reckon that
to have the approbation of God and of our own conscience is quite
enough and may we be content, gracious God, to bear the criticism of
unreasonable men. Yes, and to bear the misrepresentations of our own
family and brothers and sisters in Christ. Those that we love, if
they love not us, yet may we love them none the less, and if by
mistake they misjudge us, let us have no hard feelings towards them,
and God grant we may never misjudge one another. Are You not the
only Judge with the gavel? Oh! keep us like little children who do
not know, but expect to know hereafter and are content to believe
things which they do not understand. Lord, keep us humble,
dependent, yet serenely joyful. May we be calm and quiet even as a
weaned child, yet may we be earnest and active.

Oh Savior, make us like Yourself. We wish not so much to do as to
be. If You will make us to be right, we will do right. We find how
often we have to put a constraint upon ourselves to be right, but
oh! that we were like You, Jesus, so that we had but to act out
ourselves, to act out perfect holiness. We will never rest till
this is the case, till You have made us ourselves to be inwardly
holy, and then words and actions must be holy as a matter of course.
Now, here we are, Lord, and we belong to You. Oh! it is because we
are Your own that we have hope. You will make us worthy of You. Your
possession of us is our hope of perfection. You wash our feet
because we are Your own. Oh! how sweet is the mercy which first took
us to its heart and made us all its own and now continues to deal
tenderly with us, that being Christ's own we may have that of
Christ within us which all may see proves us to be Christ's own!

Now we would bring before You all Your saints and ask You to attend
to their trials and troubles. Some we know are afflicted in person,
others are afflicted in their dear friends, some are afflicted in
their temporal estate and are brought into great distress. Lord, we
do not know the trials of all Your people, but You do, for You are
the Head, and the pains of all the members are centered in You. Help
all Your people even to the end.

Now we pray You to grant us the blessing which we have already
sought and let it come upon all the churches of our beloved country.
May the Lord revive true and undefiled religion here and in all the
other lands where Christ is known and preached, and let the day come
when heathendom will become converted, when the crescent of
Mohammed will wane into eternal night, and when she that sits on
the Seven Hills and exalts herself in the place of God will be
cast down to sink like a millstone in the flood.

Let the blessed Gospel of the eternal God prevail, let the whole
earth be filled with His glory. Oh! that we may live to see that
day. The Lord bless our country. Have pity upon it. God bless the
president with every mercy and blessing. Grant that there may be in
Your infinite wisdom a change in the state of trade and commerce,
that there may be less unemployment and distress. Oh! let the people
see Your hand and understand why it is laid upon them, that they may
turn from wrongdoing and seek righteousness and follow peace.
Then will the blessing return. The Lord hear us as in secret we
often cry to You on behalf of this misled land. The Lord deliver it
and lift up the light of Your countenance upon it yet again, for
Jesus' sake. Amen.

