Prayer Answered And Unanswered.

God of Israel, God of Jesus Christ, our God forever and ever! Help
us now by the sacred Spirit to approach You rightly with deepest
reverence, not with abject fear, but with holiest boldness, but not
with presumption. Teach us as children to speak to You as the Father
and yet as creatures to bow before our You as our Maker.

Father, we would first ask You whether You have anything against us
as Your children? Have we been asking somewhat of You amiss and have
You given us that which we have sought? We are not conscious of it,
but it may be so, and now we are brought as an answer to our
presumptuous prayers into a more difficult position than the one we
occupied before. Now it may be that some creature comfort is nearer
to us than to You our God. It would be better without it and have
dwelt in You our God and have found our joy in Christ. But now,
Lord, in these perilous circumstances, give us grace that we may not
turn away from You.

If our position now be not such as You would have allotted to us had
we been wiser, yet nevertheless, grant that we may be taught to
behave ourselves aright even now lest the mercies You have given
should become a cause of stumbling, and the obtaining of our
hearts' desire should become a temptation to us. Rather do we feel
inclined to bless You for the many occasions in which You have not
answered our prayer, for You have said that we did ask amiss and
therefore, we could not have, and we desire to register this prayer
with You that whensoever we do ask amiss, You would in great wisdom
and love be pleased to refuse us.

O, Lord, if we at any time press our suit without a sufficiency of
resignation, do not regard us, we pray You, and though we cry unto
You day and night concerning anything, yet if You see that we are in
error, regard not the voice of our cry, we pray You. It is our
hearts' desire now, in our coolest moments, that this prayer of
ours might stand on record as long as we live, not as I will, but as
You will.

But, Oh Lord, in looking back we are obliged to remember with the
greatest gratitude the many occasions in which You have heard our
cry. We have been brought into deep distress and our heart has sunk
within us, and then have we cried to You and You have never refused
to hear us. The prayers of our lusts, You have rejected, but the
prayers of our necessities, You have granted. Not one good thing has
failed of all that You have promised.

You have given to us exceedingly and abundantly above what we asked or
even thought, for there was a day when our present condition would
have been regarded as much too high for us ever to reach, and in
looking back we are surprised that those who did lie among the pots
of Egypt should now sit every man under his vine and fig-tree, that
those who wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way should now
find a city to dwell in, that we who were prodigals in rags should
now be children in the our Father's bosom, that we who were
companions of pigs should now be made Your heirs and joint heir's
with Christ. Oh! what encouragement we have to pray to such a
prayer-hearing God who far exceeds the request of His children.

Blessed be the name of the Lord forever, our inmost heart is saying.
Amen, blessed be His name. If it were only for answered prayer or
even for some unanswered prayers, we would continue to praise and
bless You as long as we have any being.

And now, Lord, listen to the voice of Your children's cry. Wherever
there is a sincere heart seeking for greater holiness, please answer
that request, or wherever there is a broken spirit seeking for
reconciliation with Yourself, please answer it now. You know where
there is prayer, though it be unuttered, and even the lips do not
move. Oh! hear the publican who dares not lift his eye to heaven.
Hear him while he cries, "God be merciful to me a sinner." Hear
such as seem to themselves to be appointed unto death. Let the
sighing of the prisoner come before You! Oh! that You would grant
peace and rest to every troubled spirit all over the world who now
desires to turn his face to the cross and to see Christ Jesus. Oh
Lord, if there are any of Your servants burdened about the cases of
others, we would thank You for them. Raise up in the Church many
intercessors who will plead for the prosperity of Zion and give You
no rest till You establish her and make her a joy in the land.

Oh! there are some of us that cried to You about our country. You
know how in secret we groaned and sighed over evil times and You
have begun to hear us already, for which we desire to praise and
bless Your name. But we would not cease to pray for this land that
You would roll away from it all its sin, that You would deliver it
from the curse of drunkenness, rescue it from infidelity, from moral
impurity, bitterness, from ritualism, from rationalism, and every
form of evil, that this land might become a holy land.

O, Lord, bring the multitudes of the working men to listen to the
Gospel. Break in, we pray You, upon their indifference. Lord, give
them a love of Your house, a desire to hear Your Gospel, and then
will You look upon the poor rich who so many of them know nothing
about You and are worshipping their own wealth. The Lord grant that
the many for whom there are no special Gospel services, but who are
wrapped up in self-righteousness, may be brought to hear the Gospel
of Jesus that they also, as well as the poor, may be brought to
Christ.

God bless this land with more of Gospel light and with more of
Gospel life and love. You will hear us, Oh Lord.

Then would we pray for our children, that they might be saved. Some
of us can no longer pray for our children's conversion, our prayers
are heard already. But there are others who have children who
trouble them and grieve their hearts. Oh God, save sons and
daughters of godly people. Let them not have to sigh over their
children as Eli did and as Samuel did, and may they see their sons
and daughters become the children of the living Christ. We would
pray for our servants, for our neighbors, for our relatives near or
far, that all might be brought to Jesus. Do You this, Oh God, of
Your infinite mercy.

And as we are now making intercession, we would, according to Your
Word, pray for the president, and all that are in authority. Help us
to lead quiet and peaceable lives. We pray for all the other nations
also. Oh Lord, bless and remember the lands that sit in darkness and
let them see a great light, and may missionary enterprise be
abundantly successful. And let the favored nations where our God is
known, especially this land and every land that loves the same
Savior, be always favored with the divine presence and with abundant
prosperity and blessing.

Oh Lord, You have chosen Your children multiplied them on the face
of the earth. In us may it be fulfilled the blessing of Abraham, "I
will bless you and ye will be a blessing." And now, Father,
glorify Your Son! In scattering pardons through His precious blood,
glorify Your Son! In sending forth the Eternal Spirit to convince
men and bring them to His feet, Father glorify Your Son! In
enriching Your saints with gifts and graces and building them up
into His image, Father glorify Your Son! In the gathering together
of the whole company of His elect and in the hastening of His
kingdom and His coming, Father glorify Your Son! Beyond this prayer
we cannot go, "Glorify Your Son that Your Son also may glorify
You," and unto Father, Son, and Holy Spirit be glory forever and
ever. Amen.

