Prayer Number 1.

Scripture Examples.

Names of God.

1.  Adonai (Lord, Master)
2.  El Elyon (The Most High God)
3.  El Olam (The Everlasting God)
4.  El Shaddai (Lord God Almighty)
5.  Elohim (God)
6.  Jehovah Jireh (The Lord Will Provide)
7.  Jehovah Mekoddishkem (The Lord Who Sanctifies You)
8.  Jehovah Nissi (The Lord My Banner)
9.  Jehovah Rapha (The Lord That Heals)
10. Jehovah Sabaoth (The Lord of Hosts)
11. Jehovah Shalom (The Lord Is Peace)
12. Jehovah Shammah (The Lord Is There)
13. Jehovah Tsidkenu (The Lord Our Righteousness)
14. Jehovah-Raah (The Lord My Shepherd)
15. Qanna (Jealous)
16. Yahweh (Lord, Jehovah)

Model Prayer.

Luke 11:1-4. And it came to pass, that, as he was praying in a
certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto
him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.
And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art
in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be
done, as in heaven, so in earth. Give us day by day our daily
bread. And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one
that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but
deliver us from evil.

Matthew 6:5-15. And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the
hypocrites are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues
and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men.
Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. But thou, when
thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy
door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father
which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. But when ye
pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for they
think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be not
ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things
ye have need of, before ye ask him. After this manner therefore
pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our debts, as
we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but
deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power,
and the glory, for ever. Amen.


Prayer Number 2.

Confession And Petition.

Holy Lord, I have sinned times without number, and been guilty of
pride and unbelief, of failure to find Your mind in Your Word, of
neglect to seek You in my daily life. My transgressions and
shortcomings present me with a list of accusations, but I bless You
that they will not stand against me, for all have been laid on
Christ. Go on to subdue my corruptions, and grant me grace to live
above them. Let not the passions of the flesh nor lustings of the
mind bring my spirit into subjection, but rule over me in liberty
and power.

I thank You that many of my prayers have been refused. I have asked
amiss and do not have, I have prayed from lusts and been rejected, I
have longed for Egypt and been given a wilderness. Go on with Your
patient work, answering "no" to my wrongful prayers, and fitting
me to accept it. Purge me from every false desire, every base
aspiration, everything contrary to Your rule. I thank You for Your
wisdom and Your love, for all the acts of discipline to which I am
subject, for sometimes putting me into the furnace to refine my gold
and remove my dross.

No trial is so hard to bear as a sense of sin. If You should give me
choice to live in pleasure and keep my sins, or to have them burnt
away with trial, give me sanctified affliction. Deliver me from
every evil habit, every accretion of former sins, everything that
dims the brightness of Your grace in me, everything that prevents me
taking delight in You. Then I will bless You, God of Jeshurun, for
helping me to be upright.


Prayer Number 3.

Consecration And Worship.

My God, I feel it is heaven to please You, and to be what You would
have me be. O that I were holy as You are holy, pure as Christ is
pure, perfect as Your Spirit is perfect! These, I feel, are the best
commands in Your Book, and will I break them? must I break them? am
I under such a necessity as long as I live here?

Woe, woe is me that I am a sinner, that I grieve this blessed God,
who is infinite in goodness and grace! O if He would punish me for
my sins, it would not would my heart so deep to offend Him; But
though I sin continually, He continually repeats His kindness to me.

At times I feel I could bear any suffering, but how can I dishonor
this glorious God? What will I do to glorify and worship this best
of beings? O that I could consecrate my soul and body to His
service, without restraint, forever! O that I could give myself up
to Him, so as never more to attempt to be my own! or have any will
or affections that are not perfectly conformed to His will and His
love! But, alas, I cannot live and not sin.

O may angels glorify Him incessantly, and, if possible, prostrate
themselves lower before the blessed King of heaven! I long to bear a
part with them in ceaseless praise; but when I have done all I can
to eternity I will not be able to offer more than a small fraction
of the homage that the glorious God deserves. Give me a heart full
of divine, heavenly love.


Prayer Number 4.

Contentment.

Heavenly Father, if I should suffer need, and go unclothed, and be
in poverty, make my heart prize Your love, know it, be constrained
by it, though I be denied all blessings. It is Your mercy to afflict
and try me with wants, for by these trials I see my sins, and desire
severance from them. Let me willingly accept misery, sorrows,
temptations, if I can thereby feel sin as the greatest evil, and be
delivered from it with gratitude to You, acknowledging this as the
highest testimony of Your love.

When Your Son, Jesus, came into my soul instead of sin He became
dearer to me than sin had formerly been, His kindly rule replaced
sin's tyranny. Teach me to believe that if ever I would have any
sin subdued I must not only labor to overcome it, but must invite
Christ to abide in the place of it, and He must become to me more
than vile lust had been, that His sweetness, power, life may be
there. Thus, I must seek a grace from Him contrary to sin, but must
not claim it apart from Himself.

When I am afraid of evils to come, comfort me by showing me that in
myself I am a dying, condemned wretch, but in Christ I am reconciled
and live; that in myself I find insufficiency and no rest, but in
Christ there is satisfaction and peace; that in myself I am feeble
and unable to do good, but in Christ I have ability to do all
things. Though now I have His graces in part, I will shortly have
them perfectly in that state where You will show Yourself fully
reconciled, and alone sufficient, efficient, loving me completely,
with sin abolished. O Lord, hasten that day.


Prayer Number 5.

The Deeps.

Lord Jesus, give me a deeper repentance, a horror of sin, a dread of
its approach. Help me chastely to flee it and jealously to resolve
that my heart will be Yours alone.

Give me a deeper trust, that I may lose myself to find myself in
You, the ground of my rest, the spring of my being. Give me a deeper
knowledge of Yourself as savior, master, lord, and king. Give me
deeper power in private prayer, more sweetness in Your Word, more
steadfast grip on its truth. Give me deeper holiness in speech,
thought, action, and let me not seek moral virtue apart from You.

Plough deep in me, great Lord, heavenly husbandman, that my being
may be a tilled field, the roots of grace spreading far and wide,
until You alone are seen in me, Your beauty golden like summer
harvest, Your fruitfulness as autumn plenty.

I have no master but You, no law but Your will, no delight but
Yourself, no wealth but that You give, no good but that You bless,
no peace but that You bestow. I am nothing but that You make me. I
have nothing but that I receive from You. I can be nothing but that
grace adorns me. Quarry me deep, dear Lord, and then fill me to
overflowing with living water.


Prayer Number 6.

Devotion.

God of my end, it is my greatest, noblest pleasure to be acquainted
with You and with my rational, immortal soul; it is sweet and
entertaining to investigate my being when all my powers and passions
are united and engaged in pursuit of You when my soul longs and
passionately breathes after conformity to You and the full enjoyment
of You, no hours pass away with so much pleasure as those spent in
communion with You and with my heart.

O how desirable, how profitable to the Christian life is a spirit of
holy watchfulness and godly jealousy over myself when my soul is
afraid of nothing except grieving and offending You, the blessed
God, my Father, and friend, whom I then love and long to please,
rather than be happy in myself! Knowing, as I do, that this is the
pious temper, worthy of the highest ambition, and closest pursuit of
intelligent creatures and holy Christians, may my joy derive from
glorifying and delighting You. I long to fill all my time for You,
whether at home or in the way; to place all my concerns in Your
hands; to be entirely at Your disposal, having no will or interest
of my own. Help me to live to You forever, to make You my last and
only end, so that I may never more in one instance love my sinful
self.


Prayer Number 7.

Divine Support.

You are the blessed God, happy in Yourself, source of happiness in
Your creatures, my maker, benefactor, proprietor, upholder. You have
produced and sustained me, supported and indulged me, saved and kept
me; You are in every situation able to meet my needs and miseries.

May I live by You, live for You, never be satisfied with my
Christian progress but as I resemble Christ; and may conformity to
His principles, temper, and conduct grow hourly in my life. Let Your
unexampled love constrain me into holy obedience, and render my duty
my delight. If others deem my faith folly, my meekness infirmity, my
zeal madness, my hope delusion, my actions hypocrisy, may I rejoice
to suffer for Your name.

Keep me walking steadfastly towards the country of everlasting
delights, that paradise --- land which is my true inheritance.
Support me by the strength of heaven that I may never turn back, or
desire false pleasures that will disappear into nothing. As I pursue
my heavenly journey by Your grace let me be known as a man with no
aim but that of a burning desire for You, and the good and salvation
of my fellow men.


Prayer Number 8.

Evening Praise.

Giver of all, another day is ended, and I take my place beneath my
great redeemer's cross, where healing streams continually descend,
where balm is poured into every wound, where I wash anew in the
all-cleansing blood, assured that You see in me no spots of sin. Yet
a little while and I will go to Your home and be no more seen; help
me to gird up the loins of my mind, to quicken my step, to speed as
if each moment were my last, that my life be joy, my death glory.

I thank You for the temporal blessings of this world---the
refreshing air, the light of the sun, the food that renews strength,
the raiment that clothes, the dwelling that shelters, the sleep that
gives rest, the starry canopy of night, the summer breeze, the
flowers' sweetness, the music of flowing streams, the happy
endearments of family, kindred, friends. Things animate, things
inanimate, minister to my comfort. My cup runs over. Suffer me not
to be insensible to these daily mercies. Your hand bestows
blessings: Your power averts evil. I bring my tribute of thanks for
spiritual graces, the full warmth of faith, the cheering presence of
Your Spirit, the strength of Your restraining will, Your spiking of
hell's artillery. Blessed be my sovereign Lord!


Prayer Number 9.

Evening Prayer.

O lover of Your people, You have placed my whole being in the hands
of Jesus, my redeemer, commander, husband, friend, and cares for me
in Him. Keep me holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners;
may I not know the voice of strangers, but go to Him where He is,
and follow where He leads. You have bathed me once for all in the
sin-removing fountain, cleanse me now from this day's defilement,
from its faults, deficiencies of virtue, harmful extremes, that I
may exhibit a perfect character in Jesus. O Master, who didst wash
the disciples' feet, be very patient with me, be very condescending
to my faults, go on with me till Your great work in me is completed.
I desire to conquer self in every respect, to overcome the body with
its affections and lusts, to keep under my flesh, to guard my
manhood from all grosser sins, to check the refined power of my
natural mind, to live entirely to Your glory, to be deaf to
unmerited censure and the praise of men. Nothing can hurt my
new-born inner man, it cannot be smitten or die; nothing can mar the
dominion of Your Spirit within me; it is enough to have Your
approbation and that of my conscience. Keep me humble, dependent,
supremely joyful, as calm and quiet as a sucking child, yet earnest
and active. I wish not so much to do as to be, and I long to be like
Jesus, if You make me right, I will be right; Lord, I belong to You,
make me worthy of Yourself.


Prayer Number 10.

Evening Renewal.

My Father, if Your mercy had bounds, where would be my refuge from
just wrath? But Your love in Christ is without measure. Thus, I
present myself to You with sins of commission and omission, against
You, my Father, against You, adorable redeemer, against You and Your
strivings, O Holy Spirit, against the dictates of my conscience,
against the precepts of Your Word, against my neighbors and myself.
Enter not into judgment with me, for I plead no righteousness of my
own, and have no cloak for iniquity. Pardon my day dark with evil.

This night I renew my penitence. Every morning I vow to love You
more fervently, to serve You more sincerely, to be more devoted in
my life, to be wholly Yours; Yet I soon stumble, backslide, and have
to confess my weakness, misery, and sin. But I bless You that the
finished work of Jesus needs no addition from my doings, that His
oblation is sufficient satisfaction for my sins.

If future days be mine, help me to amend my life, to hate and abhor
evil, to flee the sins I confess. Make me more resolute, more
watchful, more prayerful. Let no evil fruit spring from evil seeds
my hands have sown; Let no neighbor be hardened in vanity and folly
by my want of circumspection. If this day I have been ashamed of
Christ and His Word, or have shown unkindness, malice, envy, lack of
love, unadvised speech, hasty temper, let it be no stumbling block
to others, or dishonor to Your name. O help me to set an upright
example that will ever rebuke vice, allure to goodness, and evidence
that lovely are the ways of Christ.


Prayer Number 11.

Grace Active.

Oh God, may Your Spirit speak in me that I may speak to You. O Lord
Jesus, great high priest, You have opened a new and living way by
which a fallen creature can approach You with acceptance.

Help me to contemplate the dignity of Your Person, the perfectness
of Your sacrifice, the effectiveness of Your intercession.

O what blessedness accompanies devotion, when under all the trials
that weary me, the cares that corrode me, the fears that disturb me,
the infirmities that oppress me, I can come to You in my need and
feel peace beyond understanding!

The grace that restores is necessary to preserve, lead, guard,
supply, help me. And here Your saints encourage my hope; they were
once poor and are now rich, bound and are now free, tried and now
are victorious.

Every new duty calls for more grace than I now possess, but not more
than is found in You, the divine treasury in whom all fullness
dwells. To You I repair for grace upon grace, until every void made
by sin be replenished and I am filled with all Your fullness.

May my desires be enlarged, and my hopes emboldened, that I may
honor You by my entire dependency and the greatness of my
expectation.

Be with me, and prepare me for all the smiles of prosperity, the
frowns of adversity, the losses of substance, the death of friends,
the days of darkness, the changes of life, and the last great change
of all. May I find Your grace sufficient for all my needs.


Prayer Number 12.

Heart Corruptions.

Oh God, may Your Spirit speak in me that I may speak to You. I have
no merit, let the merit of Jesus stand for me. I am undeserving, but
I look to Your tender mercy. I am full of infirmities, wants, sin;
You are full of grace.

I confess my sin, my frequent sin, my willful sin; all my powers of
body and soul are defiled: a fountain of pollution is deep within my
nature. There are chambers of foul images within my being; I have
gone from one odious room to another, walked in a no-man's-land of
dangerous imaginations, pried into the secrets of my fallen nature.

I am utterly ashamed that I am what I am in myself; I have no green
shoot in me nor fruit, but thorns and thistles; I am a fading leaf
that the wind drives away; I live bare and barren as a winter tree,
unprofitable, fit to be hewn down and burnt. Lord, do You have mercy
on me?

You have struck a heavy blow at my pride, at the false god of self,
and I lie in pieces before You. But You have given me another master
and lord, Your Son, Jesus, and now my heart is turned towards
holiness, my life speeds as an arrow from a bow towards complete
obedience to You. Help me in all my doings to put down sin and to
humble pride. Save me from the love of the world and the pride of
life, from everything that is natural to fallen man, and let
Christ's nature be seen in me day by day. Grant me grace to bear
Your will without repining, and delight to be not only chiseled,
squared, or fashioned, but separated from the old rock where I have
been embedded so long, and lifted from the quarry to the upper air,
where I may be built in Christ forever.


Prayer Number 13.

Longings After God.

My dear Lord, I can but tell You that You know I long for nothing
but Yourself, nothing but holiness, nothing but union with Your
will. You have given me these desires, and You alone canst give me
the thing desired. My soul longs for communion with You, for
mortification of indwelling corruption, especially spiritual pride.
How precious it is to have a tender sense and clear apprehension of
the mystery of godliness, of true holiness! What a blessedness to be
like You as much as it is possible for a creature to be like its
creator! Lord, give me more of Your likeness; enlarge my soul to
contain fullness of holiness; engage me to live more for You. Help
me to be less pleased with my spiritual experiences, and when I feel
at ease after sweet communing, teach me it is far too little I know
and do. Blessed Lord, let me climb up near to You, and love, and
long, and plead, and wrestle with You, and pant for deliverance from
the body of sin, for my heart is wandering and lifeless, and my soul
mourns to think it should ever lose sight of its beloved. Wrap my
life in divine love, and keep me ever desiring You, always humble
and resigned to Your will, more fixed on Yourself, that I may be
more fitted for doing and suffering.


Prayer Number 14.

Meeting God.

Great God, in public and private, in sanctuary and home, may my life
be steeped in prayer, filled with the spirit of grace and
supplication, each prayer perfumed with the incense of atoning
blood. Help me, defend me, until from praying ground I pass to the
realm of unceasing praise. Urged by my need, invited by Your
promises, called by Your Spirit, I enter Your presence, worshipping
You with godly fear, awed by Your majesty, greatness, glory, but
encouraged by Your love.

I am all poverty as well as all guilt, having nothing of my own with
which to repay You, but I bring Jesus to You in the arms of faith,
pleading His righteousness to offset my iniquities, rejoicing that
He will weigh down the scales for me and satisfy Your justice. I
bless You that great sin draws out great grace, that, although the
lest sin deserves infinite punishment because done against an
infinite God, yet there is mercy for me, for where guilt is most
terrible, there Your mercy in Christ is most free and deep. Bless me
by revealing to me more of His saving merits, by causing Your
goodness to pass before me, by speaking peace to my contrite heart;
strengthen me to give You no rest until Christ will reign supreme
within me in every thought, word, and deed, in a faith that purifies
the heart, overcomes the world, works by love, fastens me to You,
and ever clings to the cross.


Prayer Number 15.

Morning.

Compassionate Lord, Your mercies have brought me to the dawn of
another day. Vain will be its gift unless I grow in grace, increase
in knowledge, ripen for spiritual harvest. Let me this day know You
as You are, love You supremely, serve You wholly, admire You fully.
Through grace let my will respond to You, knowing that power to obey
is not in me, but that Your free love alone enables me to serve You.
Here then is my empty heart, overflow it with Your choicest gifts;
here is my blind understanding, chase away its mists of ignorance.

O ever watchful Shepherd, lead, guide, tend me this day; without
Your restraining rod I err and stray. Hedge up my path lest I wander
into unwholesome pleasure, and drink its poisonous streams; direct
my feet that I be not entangled in Satan's secret snares, nor fall
into his hidden traps. Defend me from assailing foes, from evil
circumstances, from myself. My adversaries are part and parcel of my
nature, they cling to me as my very skin; I cannot escape their
contact. In my rising up and sitting down they barnacle me; they
entice with constant baits; my enemy is within the citadel. Come
with almighty power and cast him out, pierce him to death, and
abolish in me every particle of carnal life this day.


Prayer Number 16.

Morning Dedication.

Almighty God, as I cross the threshold of this day, I commit myself,
soul, body, affairs, friends, to Your care. Watch over, keep, guide,
direct, sanctify, bless me. Incline my heart to Your ways. Mold me
wholly into the image of Jesus, as a potter forms clay. May my lips
be a well-tuned harp to sound Your praise. Let those around see me
living by Your Spirit, trampling the world underfoot, unimpeded by
lying vanities, transformed by a renewed mind, clad in the entire
armor of God, shining as a never-dimmed light, showing holiness in
all my doings. Let no evil this day soil my thoughts, words, hands.
May I travel miry paths with a life pure from spot or stain. In
needful transactions let my affection be in heaven, and my love soar
upwards in flames of fire, my gaze fixed on unseen things, my eyes
open to the emptiness, fragility, mockery of earth and its vanities.
May I view all things in the mirror of eternity, waiting for the
coming of my Lord, listening for the last trumpet call, hastening
unto the new heaven and earth. Order this day all my communications
according to Your wisdom, and to the gain of mutual good. Forbid
that I should not be profited or made profitable. May I speak each
word as if my last word and walk each step as my final one. If my
life should end today, let this be my best day.


Prayer Number 17.

Morning Needs.

O God the author of all good, I come to You for the grace another
day will require for its duties and events. I step out into a wicked
world, I carry about with me an evil heart. I know that without You
I can do nothing, that everything with which I will be concerned,
however harmless in itself, may prove an occasion of sin or folly,
unless I am kept by Your power. Hold me up and I will be safe.

Preserve my understanding from subtilty of error, my affections from
love of idols, my character from stain of vice, my profession from
every form of evil. May I engage in nothing in which I cannot
implore Your blessing, and in which I cannot invite Your inspection.
Prosper me in all lawful undertakings, or prepare me for
disappointments. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with
food convenient for me, lest I be full and deny You and say, Who is
the Lord? or be poor, and steal, and take Your name in vain.

May every creature be made good to me by prayer and Your will. Teach
me how to use the world and not abuse it, to improve my talents, to
redeem my time, to walk in wisdom toward those without, and in
kindness to those within, to do good to all men, and especially to
my fellow Christians. And to You be the glory.


Prayer Number 18.

Openness.

Lord of immortality, before whom angels bow and archangels veil
their faces, enable me to serve You with reverence and godly fear.
You who are Spirit and require truth in the inward parts, help me to
worship You in spirit and in truth. You who are righteous, let me
not harbor sin in my heart, or indulge a worldly temper, or seek
satisfaction in things that perish.

I hasten towards an hour when earthly pursuits and possessions will
appear vain, when it will be indifferent whether I have been rich or
poor, successful or disappointed, admired or despised. But it will
be of eternal moment that I have mourned for sin, hungered and
thirsted after righteousness, loved the Lord Jesus in sincerity,
gloried in His cross. May these objects engross my chief solicitude!
Produce in me those principles and dispositions that make Your
service perfect freedom.

Expel from my mind all sinful fear and shame, so that with firmness
and courage I may confess the Redeemer before men, go forth with Him
hearing His reproach, be zealous with His knowledge, be filled with
His wisdom, walk with His circumspection, ask counsel of Him in all
things, repair to the Scriptures for His orders, stay my mind on His
peace, knowing that nothing can befall me without His permission,
appointment and administration.


Prayer Number 19.

In Prayer.

O Lord, in prayer I launch far out into the eternal world, and on
that broad ocean my soul triumphs over all evils on the shores of
mortality. Time, with its foolish amusements and cruel disappointments
never appears so inconsiderate as then.

In prayer I see myself as nothing; I find my heart going after You
with intensity, and long with vehement thirst to live to You.
Blessed be the strong gales of the Spirit that speed me on my way to
the New Jerusalem.

In prayer all things here below vanish, and nothing seems important
but holiness of heart and the salvation of others.

In prayer all my worldly cares, fears, anxieties disappear, and are
of as little significance as a puff of wind.

In prayer my soul inwardly exults with lively thoughts at what You
are doing for Your church, and I long that You should get Yourself a
great name from sinners returning to Zion.

In prayer I am lifted above the frowns and flatteries of life, and
taste heavenly joys; entering into the eternal world I can give
myself to You with all my heart, to be Yours forever.

In prayer I can place all my concerns in Your hands, to be entirely
at Your disposal, having no will or interest of my own.

In prayer I can intercede for my friends, ministers, sinners, the
church, Your kingdom to come, with greatest freedom, ardent hopes,
as a son to his father, as a lover to the beloved.

Help me to be all prayer and never to cease praying.


Prayer Number 20.

Purification.

Lord Jesus, I sin. Grant that I may never cease grieving because of
it, never be content with myself, never think I can reach a point of
perfection. Kill my envy, command my tongue, trample down self. Give
me grace to be holy, kind, gentle, pure, peaceable, to live for You
and not for self, to copy Your words, acts, spirit, to be
transformed into Your likeness, to be consecrated wholly to You, to
live entirely to Your glory.

Deliver me from attachment to things unclean, from wrong
associations, from the predominance of evil passions, from the sugar
of sin as well as its gap; that with self-loathing, deep contrition,
earnest heart searching I may come to You, cast myself on You, trust
in You, cry to You, be delivered by You.

O God, the Eternal All, help me to know that all things are shadows,
but You are substance, all things are quicksand, but You are
mountain, all things are shifting, but You are anchor, all things
are ignorance, but You are wisdom.

If my life is to be a crucible amid burning heat, so be it, but sit
at the furnace mouth to watch the ore that nothing be lost. If I sin
willfully, grievously, tormentedly, in grace take away my mourning
and give me music; remove my sackcloth and clothe me with beauty;
still my sighs and fill my mouth with song, then give me summer
weather as a Christian.


Prayer Number 21.

Refuge.

O Lord, whose power is infinite and wisdom infallible, order things
that they may neither hinder, nor discourage me, nor prove obstacles
to the progress of Your cause. Stand between me and all strife, that
no evil befall, no sin corrupt my gifts, zeal, attainments. May I
follow duty and not any foolish device of my own. Permit me not to
labor at work which You will not bless, that I may serve You
without disgrace or debt. Let me dwell in Your most secret place
under Your shadow, where is safe impenetrable protection from the
arrow that flies by day, the pestilence that walks in darkness, the
strife of tongues, the malice of ill-will, the hurt of unkind talk,
the snares of company, the perils of youth, the temptations of
middle life, the moorings of old age, the fear of death. I am
entirely dependent upon You for support, counsel, consolation.
Uphold me by Your free Spirit, and may I not think it enough to be
preserved from falling, but may I always go forward, always
abounding in the work You give me to do. Strengthen me by Your
Spirit in my inner self for every purpose of my Christian life. All
my jewels I give to the shadow of the safety that is in You---my
name anew in Christ, my body, soul, talents, character, my success,
wife, children, friends, work, my present, my future, my end. Take
them, they are Yours, and I am Yours, now and forever.


Prayer Number 22.

Resting On God.

O God, most high, most glorious, the thought of Your infinite
serenity cheers me, for I am toiling and moiling, troubled and
distressed, but You are forever at perfect peace. Your designs
cause You no fear or care of unfulfillment, they stand fast as the
eternal hills. Your power knows no bond, Your goodness no stint. You
bring order out of confusion, and my defeats are Your victories: The
Lord God omnipotent reigns.

I come to You as a sinner with cares and sorrows, to leave every
concern entirely to You, every sin calling for Christ's precious
blood; revive deep spirituality in my heart; let me live near to the
great Shepherd, hear His voice, know its tones, follow its calls.
Keep me from deception by causing me to abide in the truth, from
harm by helping me to walk in the power of the Spirit. Give me
intense faith in the eternal verities, burning into me by
experience the things I know; Let me never be ashamed of the truth
of the gospel, that I may bear its reproach, vindicate it, see Jesus
as its essence, know in it the power of the Spirit.

Lord, help me, for I am often lukewarm and chill; unbelief mars my
confidence, sin makes me forget You. Let the weeds that grow in my
soul be cut at their roots; grant me to know that I truly live only
when I live to You, that all else is trifling. Your presence alone
can make me holy, devout, strong, and happy. Abide in me, gracious
God.


Prayer Number 23.

Spiritual Helps.

Eternal Father, it is amazing love, that You have sent Your Son to
suffer in my stead, that You have added the Spirit to teach,
comfort, guide, that You have allowed the ministry of angels to wall
me round; all heaven subserves the welfare of a poor worm. Permit
Your unseen servants to be ever active on my behalf, and to rejoice
when grace expands in me. Suffer them never to rest until my
conflict is over, and I stand victorious on salvation's shore.

Grant that my proneness to evil, deadness to good, resistance to
Your Spirit's motions may never provoke You to abandon me. May my
hard heart awake Your pity, not Your wrath, And if the enemy gets an
advantage through my corruption, let it be seen that heaven is
mightier than hell, that those for me are greater than those against
me. Arise to my help in richness of covenant blessings, keep me
feeding in the pastures of Your strengthening Word, searching
Scripture to find You there.

If my waywardness is visited with a scourge, enable me to receive
correction meekly, to bless the reproving hand, to discern the
motive of rebuke, to respond promptly, and do the first work. Let
all Your fatherly dealings make me a partaker of Your holiness.
Grant that in every fall I may sink lower on my knees, and that when
I rise it may be to loftier heights of devotion. May my every cross
be sanctified, every loss be gain, every denial a spiritual
advantage, every dark day a light of the Holy Spirit, every night of
trial a song.


Prayer Number 24.

The Valley Of Vision.

Lord, high and holy, meek and lowly, You have brought me to the
valley of vision, where I live in the depths but see You in the
heights, hemmed in by mountains of sin I behold Your glory. Let me
learn by paradox that the way down is the way up, that to be low is
to be high, that the broken heart is the healed heart, that the
contrite spirit is the rejoicing spirit, that the repenting soul is
the victorious soul, that to have nothing is to possess all, that to
bear the cross is to wear the crown, that to give is to receive,
that the valley is the place of vision. Lord, in the daytime stars
can be seen from deepest wells, and the deeper the wells the
brighter Your stars shine; let me find Your light in my darkness,
Your life in my death, Your joy in my sorrow, Your grace in my sin,
Your riches in my poverty, Your glory in my valley.


Prayer Number 25.

Help From On High.

O You who are King of kings and Lord of lords, we worship You.

Before Jehovah's awful throne, we bow with sacred joy.

We can truly say that we delight in You our God. There was a time
when we feared You, O Lord, with the fear of bondage. Now we
reverence, but we love as much as we reverence. The thought of Your
omnipresence was once horrible to us. We said, "Where can we flee
from His presence?" and it seemed to make hell itself more
dreadful, because we heard a voice, "Even if I make my bed in hell,
behold, You are there." But now, O Lord, we desire to find You. Our
longing is to feel Your presence and it is the heaven of heavens
that You are there. The sick bed is soft when You are there. The
furnace of affliction grows cool when You are there and the house of
prayer, when You are present, is none other than Your house oh God
and it is the very gate of heaven.

Come near, our Father, come very near to Your children. Some of us
are very weak in body and faint in heart. Soon, O God, lay Your
right hand upon us and say unto us, "Fear not." Perhaps, some of
us are alike and the world is attracting us. Come near to kill the
influence of the world with Your superior power.

Even to worship may not seem easy to some of us. The dragon seems to
pursue us and floods out of his mouth fire that impedes our
devotion. Give to us great wings like an eagle, that each Christian
here may fly away into the that resting place You prepared for them.
Help us rest in Your presence today, Lord Jesus.

Our Father, come and give rest to Your children now. Take the helmet
from our brow, remove from us the weight of our heavy armor for
a while, so we may just have peace, perfect peace, and be at rest.
Oh! help us, we pray You, come now and lets us feel the ever
presence of Your Holy Spirit. As You have already washed Your people
in the fountain filled with the blood of Christ and we are clean,
now this morning wash us from defilement in the water. With the
basin and with the pitcher, O Master, wash our feet again. It will
greatly refresh us. It will prepare us for innermost fellowship with
Yourself. So did the priests wash before they went into the holy
place.

Lord Jesus, take from us now everything that would hinder the
closest communion with You. Any wish or desire that might hamper us
in prayer remove, we pray You. Any memory of either sorrow or care
that might hinder the fixing of our affection wholly on You our God,
take it away now. What have we to do with idols anymore? You have
seen and observed us. You know where the difficulty lies. Help us
against it and may we now come boldly, not into the Holy place
alone, but into the Holiest of all, where we should not dare to come
if our great Lord Jesus Christ had not rent the veil, sprinkled the
mercy seat with His own blood and invited us enter.

Now, we have come close to Yourself, to the light that shines
between the wings of the cherubim, and we speak with You now as a
man speaks with his friends. Our God, we are Yours. You are ours. We
are now concerned in one business --- we are leagued together for
one battle. Your battle is our battle, and our fight is Your fight.
Help us, we pray You. You who did strengthen Michael and his angels
to cast out the dragon and his angels, help poor flesh and blood
that to us also the word may be fulfilled, "The Lord will bruise
Satan under your feet shortly."

Our Father, we are very weak. Worst of all we are very, very wicked
if left to ourselves and we soon we will fall a prey to the enemy.
Therefore, help us. We confess that sometimes in prayer when we are
nearest to You at that very time some evil thought comes in, some
wicked desire. Oh! what poor simpletons we are. Lord, help us. We
feel as if we would now come closer to You still and hide under the
shadow of Your wings. We wish to be lost in You our God. We pray
that You may live in us, and not that we live, but Christ lives in
us and shows Himself in us and through us.

Lord, sanctify us. Oh! that Your Holy Spirit might come and saturate
every faculty, subdue every passion, and use every power of our
nature for obedience to You oh God.

Come, Holy Spirit, we do know You. You have often overshadowed us.
Come and more fully take possession of us. Standing even now as we
feel we are, right up at the Mercy Seat, our very highest prayer is
for perfect holiness, complete consecration, entire cleansing from
every evil. Take our heart, our head, our hands, our feet, and use
us all for You. Lord, take our substance, let us not hoard it for
ourselves, nor spend it for ourselves. Take our talent, let us not
try to educate ourselves that we may have the repute of being wise,
but let every gain of mental attainment be still that we may serve
You better.

May every breath be for You, may every minute be spent for You. Help
us to live while we live, and while we are busy in the world as we
must be, for we are called to it, may we sanctify the world for Your
service. May we be lumps of salt in the midst of society. May our
spirit and temper as well as our conversation be heavenly. May there
be an influence about us that will make the world the better before
we leave it. Lord, hear us in this thing.

And now that we have Your ear, we would pray for this poor world in
which we live. We are often horrified by it. O, Lord, we could wish
that we did not know anything about it for our own comfort. We have
said, "Oh! for a lodge in some vast wilderness." We hear of
oppression and robbery and murder, and men seem let loose against
each other. Lord, have mercy upon this great and yet wicked city.
What is to be done with these thousands upon thousands of souls?
What can we do? At least help every Christian child of Yours to do
their utmost. May none of us contribute to the evil directly or
indirectly, but may we contribute to the good that is in it.

We feel we may speak with You now about this, for when Your servant
Abraham stood before You and spoke with such wonderful familiarity
to You, he pleaded for Sodom, and we plead for our city. We would
follow the example of the Abraham, the Father of the Faithful, and
pray for all great cities, and indeed for all the nations. Lord, let
Your kingdom come. Send forth Your light and Your truth. Chase that
old dragon from his throne, with all his hellish crew. Oh! that the
day might come when even upon earth the Son of the woman, the
Man-child, should rule the nations, not with a broken staff of wood,
but with an enduring scepter of iron, full of mercy, but full of
power, full of grace, but yet irresistible. Oh! that it might soon
come, the personal advent of our Lord Jesus Christ! We long for the
millennial triumph of His Word.

Until then, O Lord, gird us for the fight and make us to be among
those who overcome, through the blood of the Lamb and through the
word of our testimony because we "love not our lives unto the
death."

We lift our voice to You in prayer, also, for all our dear ones.
Lord, bless the sick and make them well as soon as it is right they
should be. Sanctify to them all they have to bear. There are also
dear friends who are very weak, some that are very trembling. God
bless them. While the tent is being taken down, may the inhabitant
within look on with calm joy, for we will by-and-by "be clothed
upon with our house that is from heaven." Lord, help us to sit too
comfortably by all these things here below. May we live here like
strangers and make the world not a house but an inn, in which we eat
and sleep, expecting to be on our journey tomorrow.

Lord, save the unconverted and bring out, we pray You, from among
them those who are converted, but who have not yet confessed Christ.
May the Church be built up by many who, having believed, are
baptized unto Your sacred name Lord Jesus. We pray You go on and
multiply the faithful in the land. Oh! that You would turn the
hearts of men to the Gospel once more. Your servants are often very
heavy in heart because of the departures from the faith. Oh! Lord
bring them back. Let not Satan take away any more of the stars with
his tail, but may these lumps of God shine bright once more. Oh! You
that walk among the seven golden candlesticks trim the flame, pour
forth the oil, and let the light shine brightly and steadily. Now,
Lord Jesus, we cannot pray any longer, though we have a thousand
things to ask for. Your servants cannot, so we beg to leave our
broken prayers at Your Mercy Seat at the very foot of it, we ask in
the name of Jesus Christ Your Son. Amen.


