Prayer Number 26.

Thanks Be Unto God.

O Lord our God, help us now really to worship You. We would thank
You for this occasion. We bless Your name for setting apart this
hallowed season. Lord, will You shut the door upon the world for us?
Help us to forget our cares. Enable us to rise clean out of this
world. May we get rid of all its down-dragging tendencies. May the
attractions of these grossest things be gone and You catch us away
to Yourself.

We do not ask to be entranced nor to see an angel in shining
apparel, but we do ask that by faith we may see Jesus and may His
presence be so evidently realized among us that we may rejoice as
well as if our eyes beheld Him, and love Him and trust Him and
worship Him as earnestly as we should do if we could now put our
fingers into the print of the nails.

Oh, You precious Lord Jesus Christ, we do adore You with all our
hearts. You are Lord of all. We bless You for becoming man that You
might be our next of kin, and being next of kin, we bless You for
taking us into that marriage union with Yourself and for redeeming
us and our inheritance from the captivity into which we were sold.
You have paid Your life for Your people. You have ransomed Your
people with Your heart's blood. You are, therefore, forever beloved
and adored.

And now You are not here for You are risen. Our souls would track
the shining way by which You have ascended through the pearly gate
up to Your Father's throne. We seem to see You sitting there, man,
yet God, reigning over all things for Your people and our ears
almost catch the accents of the everlasting song which rolls up at
Your feet, "Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive honor, and
power, and glory, and dominion, and might forever and ever." Lord,
we say, "Amen." From the outskirts of the crowd that surround Your
throne, we lift our feeble voices in earnest "Amens," for You
were slain and have redeemed us to our Heavenly Father by Your blood
and have made us kings and priests unto the almighty God, and we
will reign with You, for though far off by space, we know that we
are very near to Your heart Lord Jesus.

You look over the heads of the angelic squadrons to behold us and
You hear the praises --- yes, and the groans of Your well-beloved
children, for are not we most near You, Your flesh, and Your bones?
We know we are. We feel the ties of kinship within us. We are Your
best Beloved. You, Lord Jesus, are ours, and we are longing to get
through the crowd that surrounds You, and to get to the forefront,
and there to bow prostrate at Your dear feet that were nailed to the
cross for us, and worship the You, the Lamb that was slain, who
lives forever and ever, who has prevailed to take the book and loose
the seven seals thereof, to You be all glory and honor, world
without end. Hallelujah!

O, Savior, accept these our poor praises. They come from those You
love, and as we prize any little thing that come from those we love,
so do we feel that You will accept the thanksgiving, the reverential
homage of Your people, redeemed ones who are a people near unto You,
whose names are engraved on the palms of Your hands, of whom You are
the active head and for whom Your heart beats true and full of love
even now.

Oh, we can say we love You. We wish we loved You more. You are very
dear to us. There is nothing on earth like You. For the love of Your
name we would live and die. If we think we love You more than we do,
we pray that we may yet love You more than we think. Oh, take our
hearts right away and unite them with Your own, and let Your heart
and soul and life be everything to us. Even though we have loved
ones in heaven, it is You Lord Jesus we love above all. There is
none upon earth we desire beside You.

We worship you Father, we worship you Son, we worship you Holy Ghost
with all the powers of our being. We fall prostrate before Your
awful yet glorious throne of the Infinite Majesty of heaven. Accept
us since we offer these praises in the name of Jesus Christ.

And now most blessed Lord, look down upon those who do not yet love
You. O Redeemer, look upon them with those eyes of Yours which are
as flames of fire. Let them see how ill they treat You. May they
consider within themselves how extreme is the ingratitude which can
be negligent of Your blood, our Savior, indifferent from Your loving
heart. Oh, bring the careless and the godless to seek mercy. Let
those that are postponing serious things begin to see that the very
thought of postponement of the claims of Christ is treason against
Your Majesty. O Savior, dart Your arrows abroad and let them wound
many that they may fall before You and cry out for mercy.

But there are some who are wounded, broken hearts that seek peace
--- men and women, like Cornelius, that want to hear the words which
You our God commands.

Oh, come divine Physician and bind up every broken bone. Come with
Your sacred balm which You have compounded with Your own heart's
blood, and lay it home to the wounded conscience, and let it feel
its power. Oh! give peace to those whose conscience is like the
troubled sea which cannot rest.

O God, our God, let not the teaching of the Sunday school, the
preaching of the evangelists, the personal visitations of
individuals, let not any of these efforts be in vain. Do give
conversions. We groan out this prayer from our very heart, yet can
we also sing it, for You have heard us plenty already, and our heart
rejoices You our God and Savior who works so graciously among the
children of men.

We have been astonished as the Holy Ghost has fallen even upon the
chief of sinners, and men afar off from God have been brought in.
But, Lord, do more of this among us. Let us see greater things than
these. Where we have had one saved by Your power, let us have a
hundred to the praise of Your glorious name Lord Jesus.

Lord, keep us all from sin. Teach us how to walk circumspectly.
Enable us to guard our minds against error of doctrine, our hearts
against wrong feelings, and our lives against evil actions. Oh, may
we never speak unadvisedly with our lips, nor give way to anger.
Above all, keep us from covetousness which is idolatry and from
malice which is of the devil. Grant unto us to be full of sweetness
and light. May love dwell in us and reign in us. May we look not
every man on his own things, but every man on the things of others.
Help us to live for Your Lord Jesus. There is no life like it. Help
us to be Christ-like men and women, Christians, and may we in all
things reflect the light which we receive from You.

Bless our Church and all its organizations. O God, take care of it.
Oh! make every member of the Church a pastor over others. Let us
strive together for the good of all and so may Your kingdom come
among us.

And do prosper all the Christian churches. What we ask for ourselves
we seek for them. Let missionaries especially be helped by Your Holy
Spirit and may there come a day in which the minds of men may be
better prepared to receive the Gospel, and may Messiah's kingdom
come to the overthrow of her that sits on the Seven Hills, and to
the eternal waning of Mohammed's moon, to the overthrow of every
idol, that Jesus Christ alone may reign. Our whole heart comes out
in this. Reign, Immanuel, reign. Sit on the high throne. Ride on
Your white house and let the armies of heaven follow You, conquering
and to conquer. Come, Lord Jesus, even so, come quickly. Amen and
amen.


Prayer Number 27.

The Love Without Measure Or End.

Lord, we would come to You, but please, You come to us. Draw us but
a little and we will run after You. Blessed Holy Spirit, help our
infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought.
Come, Holy Spirit, and give right thoughts and right utterance that
we may all be able to pray in public, common prayer, so all of us
feel for each of us there is an individual portion. We are grateful
as we remember that if the minister in the sanctuary should not be
able to pray for any one of us, we still have You, Lord Jesus, who
bears the names of all Your redeemed upon Your breast and upon Your
shoulder, who will take care with the love of Your heart and the
power of Your hand to maintain the cause of all on Your own.

Dear Savior, we put ourselves under Your sacred patronage. Advocate
with the Father, plead for us this day, yes, make intercession for
the transgressors. We desire to praise the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ with our whole heart, as so many of us have tasted that the
You are gracious. Truly You have delivered us from the gulf of dark
despair, where we wretched sinners lay. You have brought us up also
out of the horrible pit and out of the miry clay. You have set our
feet upon a rock and the new song which You have put into our mouths
we would not stifle, but we would bless You Lord Jesus whose mercy
endures forever.

We thank You, Lord, for the love without beginning which chose us
before the earth was, for the love without measure which entered
into covenant for our redemption, for the love without failure which
in due time appeared in You Lord Jesus, the Christ, our Savior, and
wrought out our redemption, with that love which has never changed,
though we have wandered, that love which abides faithful even when
we are unfaithful.

O God, we praise You for keeping us till this day and for the full
assurance that You will never let us go. Some can say, "He
restoreth my soul," but they had wandered, wandered sadly, but You
have brought them back again. Lord, keep us from wandering, then
will we sing, "Unto Him that is able to keep us from stumbling and
to present us faultless before His presence with exceeding joy."
Bless You Oh Lord, our inmost soul blesses the and exalts the name
of the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Spirit, the Triune. Blessed be the Lord forever. Bless the
office sustained by each divine person. Blessed be that divine
blessing which has come streaming down to us through each one of
those, condescending titles worn by the Father, Son, and the Holy
Spirit.

We feel like singing all the time. We would take down our harp from
the willows, if we had hung it there, and we would waken every
string to the sweetest melody of praise unto You, our Lord and our
God. Yet, Lord, we cannot close with praise, for we are obliged to
come before You with humble confession of sin. We are not worthy of
the least of all these favors. We cannot say, "He is worthy for
whom You should do this thing." No. But we are altogether unworthy
and Your gifts are according to the riches of Your grace, for which
again, we praise You.

Lord, forgive us all our sin. May Your pardoned ones have a renewed
sense of their acceptance in the Beloved. If any cloud has arisen to
hide You from any believing eye, take that cloud away. If in our
march through this world, so full of mire as it is, we have any spot
on us, dear Savior, wash our feet with that blessed footbath and
then say to us, "Ye are clean through and through." May we know it
so, that there is no condemnation, no separation, sin is removed as
to its separating as well as its destroying power, and may we enter
into full fellowship with You oh God. May we walk in the light as
You our God is in the light and have fellowship with You, while the
blood of Jesus Christ, Your Son, cleanses us from all sin. Let no
child of Yours have any dead work upon his conscience and may our
conscience be purged from dead works to serve You, the living and
true God.

And oh! if there are any that after having made the profession of
religion have gone astray by any form of sin, Lord, restore them. If
they have fallen into addiction, if they have fallen into moral
impurity, if they have fallen into dishonesty, if, in any way, they
have stained their garments, oh! that Your mighty grace might bring
them back and put them yet among the children. But give them not up,
set them not as Admah, make them not as Zeboim, but let Your
repenting be kindled and Your compassion be moved for them, and let
them also be moved, and may they return with weeping and with
supplication and find You a God ready to pardon.

Furthermore, we ask of You, our Father, this day to perfect Your
work within our hearts. We are saved, but we would be saved from sin
of every form and degree --- from sins that lie within, and we are
scarcely aware that they are there. If we have any pride of which we
are not conscious, any unbelief of which we are not aware, if there
is a clinging to the creature, a form of idolatry which we have not
yet perceived, we pray You, Lord, to search us as with candles till
You spy out the evil and then put it away. We are not satisfied with
pardoned sin, "We pray, create in us a clean heart, O God, and
renew a right spirit within me." Help us in our daily life, in our
families, in our relations as husbands or wives, parents or
children, employers, or employees, in our business transactions with
our fellow men, in our dealings with the Church of God, may we be
true, upright, pure, kept from the great transgression because we
are kept from the minor.

Oh! that we may be such as glorify Christ. Save us, we pray You,
from what passes as religion. Give us the peculiar grace of a
peculiar people. May we abide in You Christ Jesus. May we live near
to Your our God. Let not the frivolities of the world have any power
over us whatever. May we be too full grown in grace to be bewitched
with the toys which are only becoming in children. Oh! give us to
serve You and especially, and this prayer we have already prayed but
we pray it again, make us useful in the salvation of our neighbors.
O Lord, have we lived so long in the world and yet are our children
unconverted? May we never rest until they are truly saved. Oh Lord,
have we been going up and down in business and are those round about
us yet unaware of our Christian character? Have we never spoken
to them the Word of Life? Lord, arouse us to a deep concern for all
with whom we come in contact from day to day. Make us all
missionaries at home or in the street, or in our workshop, wherever
Providence has cast our lot, may we there shine as lights in the
world.

Lord, keep us right, true in doctrine, true in experience, true in
life, true in word, true in deed. Let us have an intense agony of
spirit concerning the many who are going down to the everlasting
fire of which you described. Lord, save them! Lord, save them! Stop,
we pray You, the torrents of sin that run down the streets of our
city, purge the dead sea of sin, in which so many of the citizens
are lying soaked. Oh Lord! We long for that the day when the name of
Jesus becomes a household word, when everybody knows of Your love,
and of Your death, and of Your blood shed on our behalf, and of its
cleansing power. Lord, save men, gather up the company of redeemed
people. Let those who the Father gave to You Lord Jesus be brought
out from among the ruins of the fall to be Your joy and crown. "Let
the people praise You, O God, yes, let all the people praise You."
Let the ends of the earth fear and reverence You who died to save
them. Let the whole earth be filled with Your glory oh God.

This is our great prayer, and we crown it with this, Come, Lord
Jesus, come Lord and tarry not. Come in the fullness of Your power
and the splendor of Your glory! Come quickly, even so come quickly,
Lord Jesus. Amen.


Prayer Number 28.

The All Prevailing Plea.

O Lord God! the Fountain of all fullness, we, who are nothing but
emptiness, come unto You for all supplies, nor will we come in vain,
since we bear with us a plea which is all prevalent. Since we come
commanded by Your Word, encouraged by Your promise, and preceded by
Christ Jesus, our great High Priest, we know that whatsoever we
will ask in prayer, believing, we will receive. Only do You help
us now to ask right things and may the utterances of our mouth be
acceptable in Your sight, O God our Strength and our Redeemer.

We would first adore Your blessed and ever-to-be-beloved Name. "All
the earth worships You, the Father everlasting." Heaven is full of
Your glory. Oh! that the people's hearts were filled, that the
noblest creatures You made, that You set in Paradise. That You sent
your Son, our Savior, to shed His blood, would love You love, each
and everyone, with all their hearts.

The faithful, chosen, called, and separated, join in the everlasting
song. All Your redeemed praise You, O God! As the God of our
election, we praise You for Your everlasting and immutable love. As
the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, we bless You for that
unspeakable gift, the offering of Your Only begotten. Words are but
air, and tongues but clay, but Your compassion is divine, therefore
it is not possible that any words of ours should "reach the height
of this great argument" or sound forth Your worthy praise for this
superlative deed of grace.

We bless You, also, divine Son of God, co-equal and co-eternal with
the Father, that You did not disdain to be born of the Virgin, and
that, being found in fashion like a man, You did not refuse to be
obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Let Your brows
adorned with something better than thorns. Let the eternal diadem
forever glitter there. You were slain and have redeemed us to God by
Your blood. Unto You be glory, and honor, and power, and majesty,
and dominion, and might, forever and ever!

And equally, most blessed Spirit, You who did hover over chaos and
bring it into order, You who did bring about the Son of God's body
of flesh, You who did quicken us to spiritual life, by whose divine
energy we are sanctified and hope to be made meet to be partakers of
the inheritance of the saints in light, unto You, also, be
hallelujahs, world without end!

O Lord! our soul longs for words of fire, but we cannot reach them!
Oh! when will we drop this clay which now is so disagreeable to our
song? When will we be able with wings to mount upward to Your
throne, and having learned some flaming sonnets that have once been
sung by cherubim above, we will praise You forever?

Yet even these are not rich enough for Your glory. We would sing
unto You a new song. We will, when we reach that heavenly shore,
become leaders of the eternal music. "Day without night" will we
"circle Your throne rejoicing," and count it the fullness of our
glory, our bliss, our heaven, to wave the palm, and cast our crowns
with our songs at Your feet forever and ever!

Our Father in heaven, next to this we would offer prayer for those
who never think of You, who, though created by You, are strangers to
You, who are fed by Your bounty and yet never lift their voices to
You, but live for their selves, for this world, for Satan, for sin.
Father, these people cannot pray for themselves for they are dead.
Help Your quickened children pray for them as we ought. These will
not come to You, for, like sheep, they are lost, but do You seek
them, Father, and bring them back.

Oh! our glorious Lord, You have taught us to pray for others, for
the grace which could have met with such undeserving sinners as we
are, must be able to meet with the vilest of the vile. Oh! we cannot
boast of what we are. We cannot boast of what we have been by
nature. Had we our just reward, we would be even now in hell. Had we
this day our proper, natural, and deserved position, we should still
have been in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity. Its
Your rich, free, sovereign, distinguishing grace which has brought
us up out of the miry clay and set our feet upon a rock. And will we
refuse to pray for others? will we leave one stone unturned for
their conversion? will we not weep for those who have no tears and
cry for those who have no prayers? Father, help us. We must and we
will.

There are those who are utterly careless about divine things. Will
You impress them! May some stray shot reach their conscience! Oh!
that they may be led to seriously consider their position and their
ultimate end! May thoughts of death and eternity dash like some
mighty waves, irresistibly against their souls! Oh! may heaven's
light shine into their conscience! May they begin to ask themselves,
where they are, and what they are, and may they be turned unto You
oh Lord with full purpose of heart.

There are others who are concerned, but they are halting between two
opinions. There are some that we love in the flesh who have not yet
decided for God. See their soul trembles in the balance! Cast in
Your cross, O Jesus, and tilt the scale in Your kingdom's favor!
Oh! Love irresistible, come, and carry by storm the hearts which have
not yet yielded to all the attacks of the law! Oh! that some who
never could be melted, even by the furnace of Sinai, may be
dissolved by the beams of love from Your tearful and loving eyes!

Lord, Lord, if there be any heart that is saying, "I yield. I lay
down my rebellion's weapons at your feet and cease to be Your
enemy. You are the King of kings" --- if there be one who is
saying, "I am willing to be adopted by Christ, to be washed in His
blood, to be called in His righteousness" --- bring that willing
sinner in now! May there be no more delay, but may this be the time
when, once for all, the great transaction will be done and they
will be Yours Lord and You will be theirs.

Oh! that we could pour out our soul in prayer for the unconverted!
You know where they will all be in a few years! Oh! by Your wrath,
we pray You, let them not endure it! By the flames of hell, be
pleased to ransom them from going down into the pit! By everything
that is dreadful in the wrath to come, we do argue with You to have
mercy upon these citizens of earth, even upon those who have no
mercy upon themselves. Father, have You not promised Your Son to see
of His soul's travail? We point You to the ransom paid. We point
You once again to the groans of Your Son, to His agony, and bloody
sweat! Turn, turn Your glorious eyes our city, and then look on
sinners and speak the word and ask them to live. Righteous Father,
refresh every corner of the vineyard and on every branch of the vine
let the dew of heaven rest. Oh! that You would bless Your Church
throughout the world! Let visible union be established, or if not
that, yet let the invisible union which has always existed be better
recognized by believers. Will You repair our schisms? Will You
repair the breaches which have been made in the walls of Zion? Oh!
that You would purge us of everything unscriptural, until all
Christians come to the law and to the testimony, and still keep the
ordinances and the doctrines as they were committed to the apostles
by Christ!

Remember our land in this time of need. Could by some means would
you provide some mercy and means relieve the distress so
prevalent in our nation. Quicken the wheels of commerce that the
many who are out of employment in this city may no longer be crying
for work. Oh! that You would make wars to cease to the ends of the
earth, or when they break out, You break the chains of hatred, and
though desperate be the evil of our day, grant us that Satan may
cast out Satan and may his kingdom be divided and fall.

Above all, You long-expected Messiah, do You come! Your ancient
people who despised You once are waiting for You in Your second
coming, and we, the Gentiles, who knew You not, neither regarded
You, we too are watching for Your advent. Make no tarrying, O Jesus!
May Your feet soon stand again on Olives! You will not have this
time there to sweat great drops of blood, but You will come to
proclaim the year of vengeance for Your foes and the year of
acceptance for Your people.

The earth travails for Your coming. The whole creation groans in
pain together until now. Your own expect You. We are longing until
we are weary for Your coming. Come quickly, Lord Jesus, come
quickly. Amen.


Prayer Number 29.

To The King Eternal.

Our God and Father, draw us to Yourself by Your Spirit and may the
few minutes that we spend in prayer be full of the true spirit of
supplication. Grant that none of us with closed eyes may yet be
looking abroad over the fields of this world's concerns and vanity,
but may our eyes be really shut to everything else now but that
which is spiritual and divine. May we have communion with You oh
Lord Jesus in the secret places of our hearts and find You to be
unto us a little sanctuary.

O Lord, we do not find it easy to get rid of distracting thoughts,
but we pray You help us to draw the sword against them and drive
them away, and as when the birds came down upon his sacrifice
Abraham drove them away, so may we chase away all cares, all
thoughts of earthly pleasures, everything else, whether it be
pleasing or painful, that would keep us away from real fellowship
with the You our Father and our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

We would begin with adoration. We worship from our hearts the Three
in One, the infinitely glorious Jehovah, the only living and true
God. We adore the You Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, the God of
Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob. We are not yet ascended to the
place where pure spirits behold Your face of God, but we will soon
be there, perhaps much sooner than we think, and we would be there
in spirit now, casting our crowns upon the glassy sea before the
throne of Your Infinite Majesty and ascribe all glory, honor, power,
praise, and dominion to You that sits on the throne and unto the
Lamb forever and ever.

Let all the Church worship You, O God. Let every heart renewed by
grace takes a delight in adoring You, and we, among the rest, though
least and insignificant of them all, would bow as enthusiastically
as any of those worshiping, loving, praising in our soul, with
silence or with shouts unto You our God because our joy in Christ is
altogether inexpressible.

Lord, help us to worship You in life as well as lip. May our whole
being be taken up with You. As when the fire fell on Elijah's
sacrifice of old and lapped up all the water that was in the
trenches, so may the consuming fire of the divine Spirit use up all
our nature, and even that which might seem to hinder us in worship,
even out of that may God get glory by the removal of it. In this we
adore You.

But, oh! dear Savior, we come to You and we remember what our state
is, and the condition we are in encourages us to come to You now as
beggars, as dependents upon Your heavenly charity. You are a Savior
and as such You are on the outlook for those that need saving, and
here we are, here we come. We are the men and women You are looking
for, either needing a Savior or ready to serve.

Great Physician, we bring You our wounds, bruises, pain,
infirmities, and sores. The more diseased we are the more conscious
we are today of how this world has fallen, the depravity of our
nature, the deep-seated corruption of our hearts. We feel more and
more that we are the sort of beings that You are seeking for, for
You said the well have no need of a physician, but those that are
sick.

Glorious Benefactor, we can meet You on the best of terms. We are
full of poverty. We are just as empty as we can be. We could not be
more abjectly dependent than we are at this moment. Since You want
to display Your mercy, here is our sin. Since You want to show Your
strength, here is our weakness. Since You want to manifest Your
loving kindness, here are our needs. Since You want to glorify Your
grace, here are we, such persons as can never have a shadow of a
hope except through Your grace, for we are undeserving,
ill-deserving, hell-deserving, and if You do not magnify Your grace
in us, we must perish forever.

And somehow, we feel it relieved to come to You in this way. If we
had to tell You that we had some good thing in us which You did
require of us, we should be questioning whether we were not
flattering ourselves and presumptuously thinking that we were better
than we are. Lord Jesus, we come just as we are. This is how we came
at first, and this is how we come still, with all our failures, with
all our transgressions, with all and everything that is what it
ought not to be, we come to You. We do bless You that You receive us
and our wounds. By Your stripes we are healed. You receive us and
our sins, and by Your sin-bearing we are set clear and free from
sin. You receive us and our death, even our death, for You are He
that lives and was dead and are alive forevermore.

We just come and lie prostrate at Your feet, obedient to that call
when You said, "Come unto Me all ye that labor and I will give you
rest." Let us feel that peace that the world cannot understand.
Give us rest since we answered Your call. May some come that have
never come till this day, and may others who have been coming these
many years, consciously come again, and come to You as unto a living
stone, chosen by God the Father as the precious One, to build our
everlasting hopes upon.

But, Lord, now that we are come so near You and on right terms with
You, we venture to ask You this, that we that love You may love You
very much more. Oh! since You have been precious, Your very name has
music in it to our ears, and there are times when Your love is so
inexpressibly strong on us that we are carried away with it. We have
felt that we would gladly die to increase Your honor. We have been
willing to lose our name and our repute so You might be
glorified, and truly we often feel that if the crushing of us would
lift You one inch the higher, we would gladly suffer it.

For You are our blessed King. We see the crown on Your head. Though
we get wounded in battle, You must be King no matter what becomes of
us. You must be glorified regardless of our circumstances.

But yet we have to mourn that we cannot always get to feel as we
should. This rapture and outpouring of Your love. Oh! at times You
manifest Yourself to us so affectionately that heaven itself could
hardly be happier than what the world becomes when You are with us
in it. Oh but we are in the dark and can't seem to find You, give
us that love in the darkness. Give us that love when there is no
comfortable sense of Your presence. Let us not be dependent upon
feeling, but may we ever love You, so that if You did turn Your back
on us by the year together, we would think none the less of You, for
You are unspeakably to be beloved whatsoever You do, and if You
give us rough words, yet still we would cling to You, and if
the rod be used till we tingle again, yet still will we love You,
for You are infinitely to be beloved of men and of angels, and Your
Father loved You and exalted You and given all power to You. Make
our hearts to love You evermore the same. With all the capacity for
love that there is in us, and with all the more that You can give
us, help us to love You in spirit and in truth.

Help us, Lord, to conquer sin out of love to You. Help some dear
struggler that has been mastered by sin sometimes, and they are
struggling against it. Give them the victory, Lord, and when the
battle gets very sharp, and they are tempted to give way a little,
help them to be very firm and very strong, never giving up hope in
You Lord Jesus. Give us the resolve that if we perish, we will perish
at Your feet and nowhere else but there.

Lord, raise up in our churches many men and women that are all on
fire with love for You and Your divine Gospel. Oh! give us back
again, men like Antipas, Your faithful martyr. Men like Paul, Your
earnest servant who proclaimed Your truth so boldly. Give us Johns.
Men to whom the Spirit may speak, who will help us to hear what the
Spirit saith unto the churches. Women like Lydia, Lois, Junia,
Phoebe, Persis, and Priscilla Lord. Revive us! Revive us Lord Jesus!
Revive Your work during these years in all the churches.
Return to the Church in power throughout this country. Return unto
her. Your adversaries think to have it all their own way, but we
know they do not, for You Lord live in us. You are our blessed rock
of salvation.

Because of truth and righteousness, we ask You to lay bare Your arm
in these last days. O Shepherd of Israel, deal a heavy blow at the
wolves and keep Your sheep in their own true pastures, free from the
poisonous pastures of error. O God, we want to see You stirred up.
We know You do not sleep, and yet sometimes it seems as if You do
when to go on in their own way. Help us to see Your hand, awake and
pleading Your own cause. We know Your say, "Awake! Awake! Put on
thy strength, O Zion." This we would do, Lord, but we cannot do it
unless You put forth Your strength to turn our weakness into might.

Great God, save this nation! O God of heaven and earth, stop the
floods of infidelity and of filthiness that roll over this land. We
ask your intervention that we might see better days! Men and women
seem entirely indifferent now. They will not come to hear the Word
as once they did. God of our fathers, let Your Spirit work again
among the masses. Turn the hearts of the people to the hearing of
the Word and convert them when they hear it. May it be preached with
power the Holy Spirit sent down from heaven.

Our hearts are weary for You, our King, You are a King forgotten in
Your own land. You are a King despised among Your own people. When
will You appear and be glorious before the eyes of all the people of
the earth? Come Lord Jesus. We beg You, come quickly, or if You
tarry your coming, send forth the Holy Spirit with a greater power
than ever such that our hearts leap within us as we see miracles of
mercy repeatedly spread in our midst.

Father, glorify Your Son. Somehow our prayer always comes to this
before we are done. "Father, glorify Your Son that Your Son also
may glorify You," and let the days come when He will see of the
travail of His soul and will be satisfied. Bless all work done for
You, whether it be in the city or in the cathedral, silently and
quietly at the street door, or in the Sunday school and classes, O
Lord, bless Your work. Also hear prayers that have been put up by
wives for their husbands, children for their parents, parents for
their children. Let the holy service of prayer never cease and let
the intercession be accepted by you oh God, for Jesus Christ's
sake. Amen.


Prayer Number 30.

The Wonders Of Calvary.

Great God, there was a time when we dreaded the thought of coming
near to You, for we were guilty, and You were angry with us, but now
we will praise You because Your anger is turned away and You comfort
us. Yes, and the very throne which once was a place of dread has now
become the place of shelter. We flee to You for safety.

We long now to get away from the world, even from the remembrance of
it to have fellowship with You who was, and is, and is to come,
Almighty God. Lord, we have been worried and wearied often with
care, but with You our care comes to an end. All things are with
You. When we live in You, we live in wealth, in rest, and constant
joy.

We have to battle with the sons of men against a thousand errors and
unrighteousnesses. But when we flee to You, there all is truth and
purity and holiness, and our heart finds peace. Above all, we have
to battle with ourselves and we are very much ashamed of ourselves.
After many years of great mercy, after tasting of the powers of the
world to come, we still are so weak, so foolish. But when we get
away from ourselves to You oh God, there is truth and purity and
holiness and our heart finds peace, wisdom, completeness, delight,
joy, victory in your Son Jesus Christ.

Oh! bring us, then, we pray You, now near to Yourself. Let us bathe
ourselves in communion with You our Lord and friend. Bless be the
love which chose us before the world began. We can never
sufficiently adore You for Your sovereignty, the sovereignty of love
which saw us in the ruins of the Fall, yet loved us anyway.

We praise the God of the Eternal Council Chamber and of the
Everlasting Covenant, but where can we find sufficient words with
which to praise You who gave us grace in Jesus Christ before You
spread the starry sky. We also bless You, O God, as the God of our
redemption, for You have so loved us as to give even Your dear Son
for us. He gave Himself, His very life for us that He might redeem
us from all iniquity and separate us unto Himself to be His peculiar
people, zealous for good works.

Never can we sufficiently adore free grace and dying love. The
wonders of Calvary never cease to be wonders. They are increasingly
marvelous in our admiration as we think of Him who washed us from
our sins in His own blood. Nor can we cease to praise You, the God
of our regeneration, who found us dead and made us alive, found us
at enmity and reconciled us, found us loving the things of this
world and lifted us out of the junk and mire of selfishness and
worldliness into the love of divine everlasting things.

O Spirit of God, we love You this day, especially for dwelling in
us. How can You abide in such a crude vessel. How can You make these
bodies to be Your temples, and yet You do so, for which, let Your
name be reverenced so long as we live.

O Lord, we would delight ourselves in You this day. Give us faith
and love and hope that with these three graces we may draw very near
to You the Triune God. You will keep us. You will preserve us. You
will feed us. You will lead us. Bring us to Your mind oh God, and
there will You show us Your love, and in the boundless everlasting
glory there, You will make us to know, taste, and feel joys that
cannot be expressed.

But now we must wait a little longer before we come to that golden
shore. But a little longer fighting and we will receive the crown
of life that does not fade away.

Lord, get us up above the world. Come, Holy Spirit, heavenly dove,
and mount and bear us on Your wings, far from these inferior sorrows
and inferior joys, up where eternal ages roll. May we ascend in
joyful contemplation and may our spirit come back again, strong for
all its service, armed for all its battles, armored for all its
dangers, and made ready to live heaven on earth, until by-and-by we
will live heaven in heaven. Great Father, be with Your waiting
people. For those in great trouble, we ask Your help and
deliverance. Those that are despondent, please Father sweetly
comfort and cheer them. For any that have erred and are suffering
under their own sin, bring them back and heal their wounds. For
those that this day that are gasping after holiness, give them the
desire of their hearts. Any that are longing for usefulness, lead
them into ways to be useful.

Lord, we want to live while we live. We pray that we may not merely
groan out an existence here below, nor live as earthworms crawling
back into our holes and dragging now and then a withered leaf with
us, but oh! give us to live as we ought to live, with a new life
that You have put into us, with the divine quickening which has
lifted us as much above common men as men are lifted above the
beasts that perish.

Do not let us always be hampered like poor half-hatched birds within
the egg. May we chip the shell today and get out into the glorious
liberty of the children of God. Grant us this, we pray You.

Lord, visit our church. We have heard Your message to the churches
at Ephesus. It is a message to us also. Oh! do not let any of us
lose our first love. Let not our church grow cold and dead. We are
not, we fear, what once we were. Lord, revive us! All our help must
come from You. Give back to the Church its love, its confidence, its
holy daring, its consecration, its liberality, its holiness. Give
back all it ever had and give it much more. Take every member and
wash their feet, Sweet Lord, most tenderly, and set us with clean
feet in a clean road, with a clean heart to guide us, and bless us
as You are wanting to do after a divine fashion.

Bless us, our Father, and let all the churches of Jesus Christ
partake of like cause and tenderness. Walking among the golden
candlesticks, trim every lamp and make every light, even though it
burns feebly now, make it to shine out gloriously through Your care.

Now bless the sinners. Lord, convert them. O God, save men, save
this great city, this wicked city, this slumbering dead city. Lord,
arouse it, arouse it by any means, that it may turn unto You its
God. Lord, save sinners all the world over and let Your precious
Word be fulfilled. "Behold He cometh with clouds." Why do You
tarry? Tarry no more, O Lord, our Savior. And now unto Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost be glory forever and ever. Amen.


