Prayer Number 31.

Let All The People Praise You.

Our Father, when we read Your description of human nature, we are
sure it is true, for You has seen man ever since his fall and You
have been grieved at heart concerning him. Moreover, You have such a
love towards him that You did not judge him harshly and every word
that You have spoken must be according to truth. You have measured
and computed the iniquity of man, for You have laid it on Your
Well-Beloved Son Jesus Christ and we know You have not laid upon Him
more than is required.

O God, we are distressed, we are bowed down greatly when we see what
is the condition to which we and all our race have fallen. "Where
is boasting then?" And yet we grieve to say that we do boast, and
have boasted, and that our fellowmen are great at boasting, whereas
they should lay their hands upon their mouths before You.

It has become a wonder to us that You should look upon us at all.
The most hateful object in creation must be a man because man slew
Your Son because he has multiplied rebellions against a just and
holy law. And yet truly there is no sight that gives You more
pleasure than man, for Jesus was a man and the brightness of His
glory covers all our shame, and the pureness and perfectness of His
obedience shines like the sun during the thick darkness.
For His sake, You are well pleased and You dwell with us.

Lord, we once thought that those descriptions of our heart were
somewhat strained, but we do not think so now, for now we perceive
that had it not been for restraint which held us like chains we, in
our unregenerate state, were capable of anything, for even now when
we are regenerate, the old sin that abides in us is capable of
reaching to a high degree of infamy and did if not this new life
restrains the old death, we do not know what we might yet become.

We once thought we were humble, but we soon found that our pride
feeds on any current flattery that is laid at our door. We thought
we were believers, but sometimes we are so doubting, so unbelieving,
so vexed with skepticism that we certainly would not choose to
follow that which is Your work in us. By nature, we are such liars
that we think You a liar too. The surest token of our
untruthfulness, that we think that You can be untrue.

Oh, this simple heart of ours! Does it not have enough kindling in
it to set on fire the course of nature? If a spark does but fall
into it, any one of our members left to itself would dishonor
Christ, deny the Lord that bought us, and turn back into perdition.

We are altogether ashamed. Truly in us is fulfilled Your own Word,
"You shalt be a shame and never open thy mouth anymore." For Your
love to us has silenced us, that great love has hidden boasting from
us. Your great love, wherewith You loved us, even when we were dead
in trespasses and sins. Your great love wherein You loved us still,
despite our ill manners, our wanderings, our shortcomings, and our
excesses.

Oh, Your matchless love oh God! Truly if there be any glory it must
be all Yours. If there be any virtue, it is the result of Your
grace. If there be anything whatsoever that lifts us above the devil
himself, it is the work of the divine Spirit, to whom be glory!

And now as we remember all of this, and being in Your presence, we
rejoice that You covered our unrighteousness, we are free from
condemnation, and we now favored by You oh Lord. You have given us a
taste of that love, which is not merely laid up for us, but we have
enjoyed it and do enjoy it still.

Our heart knows Your love as our Heavenly Father, for we have
received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, "Abba Father."
And we rejoice in the redemption of our spirits, and we expect the
redemption of our bodies, when at the coming of the Lord Jesus
Christ they too will be raised incorruptible, and we will be
changed in a twinkling of an eye.

O Jesus, bring us Your Israel out of Egypt and leave not a hoof
behind. No, not a bone, nor a piece of Your elect left in the hands
of the adversary. We will come out clean, delivered by Him who does
nothing by part, but who on the cross said, "It is finished." You
who will say it even more on Your throne. Glory be unto Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost, who lifted us up from our ruin and condemnation, and
made us new creatures and justified us, and guaranteed us eternal
life, which eternal life will be manifested at Your second coming
oh Lord Jesus. All glory be to Your ever blessed name forever and
ever!

And now, Lord, during the few days that remain to us here below, be
it all our business to cry, "Behold the Lamb!" Oh! teach these
hearts to be always conscious of Your love and then these lips, that
they may set out as best they can by Your divine help, the matchless
story of the cross. Oh! Help us to win many to Your family Lord
Jesus. Let us not be barren, but may we have to cry that we are the
beloved of the Lord and our offspring with us. May we have many
spiritual offspring that will go with us to the throne, that we may
say before You, God our Father, "I and the children that You have
given me."

Lord, bless the work of the Church and all its branches and let Your
kingdom come into the hearts of multitudes by its endeavors.
Remember all churches that are really at work for Your Son Jesus and
all private individuals, workers alone, workers by themselves. Let
the name of Jesus be made known by tens of thousands. Give the Your
Holy Word and increase the multitude of them, like the Gideons, that
publish it. Let all this, our beloved country, know Christ and come
to His feet. Let the dark places of this city be enlightened with
the sweet name of Jesus. And then let the people of the earth know
You and the uttermost parts.

Oh! from the tree declare Your salvation and from the throne let it
be published in proclamations of a king. "Let the people praise
You, O God; yes, let all the people praise You."

Our heart seems as if it had not anything else to ask for when it
reaches to this, yet would we go back a moment and say, Lord,
forgive us our sins. Lord, sanctify our persons. Lord, guide us in
difficulty. Lord, supply our needs. Lord teach us. Lord perfect us.
Lord comfort us. Lord make us ready for the appearing of Your Son
from heaven!

And now we come back to a theme that still seems to engross our
desires. Oh! that Christ might come. Oh! that Your word might be
made known to the uttermost ends of the earth! Lord, they die, they
perish, they pass away by multitudes! Every time the sun rises and
sets, they pass away! Make no delay, we beg You. Give wings to the
feet of Your messengers and fire to their mouths that they may
proclaim the Word with Pentecostal swiftness and might. Oh! that
Your kingdom might come and Your will be done on earth as it is in
heaven, for Your is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, forever
and ever. Amen.


Prayer Number 32.

A Prayer For Holiness.

Our Father, we worship and love You and it is one point of our
worship that You are holy. Time was when we loved You for Your
mercy. We knew nothing more, but now You have changed our hearts and
made us in love with goodness, purity, justice, true holiness, and
we understand now why "the cherubim and seraphim continually cry,
Holy, Holy, Lord God of hosts."

We adore You because You are holy, and we love You for Your infinite
perfection. For now, we sigh and cry after holiness ourselves.
Sanctify us completely, spirit, soul, and body. Lord, we mourn over
the sins of our past life and our present shortcomings. We bless
You. You have forgiven us. We are reconciled to You by the death of
Your Son. There are many who know that they have been washed and
that Jesus bears our sin and takes our sin away. These are those who
now cry to You to be delivered from the power of sin, to be
delivered from the power of temptation without, but especially from
the indwelling of sin within.

Lord, purify us in head, heart, and hand, and if it is necessary
that we should be put into the fire to be refined as silver is
refined, then we would welcome the fire if we may be rid of the
dross. Lord, save us from constitutional sin, from sins of
temperament, from sins of our surroundings. Save us from ourselves
in every shape and grant us especially to have the light of love
strong within us.

May we love You our God. May we love You, our Savior. May we love
Your people as being members of one body in connection with You
through Christ. May we love the guilty world with that love which
desires its salvation and conversion and may we love not in word
only, but in deed and in truth. May we help the helpless, comfort
the mourners, sympathize with the widows and the fatherless, and may
we be always ready to put up with wrong, to be long suffering, to be
very patient, full of forgiveness, counting it a small thing that we
should forgive others since we have been forgiven by You oh God.
Lord, tune our hearts to love and then give us an inward peace, a
restfulness about everything.

May we have no burden to carry, because, though we have a burden, we
have rolled it upon You oh Lord. May we take up our cross and
because Christ has once died on the cross, may our cross become a
comfort to us. May we count it all joy when we fall into divers
trials, knowing that in all this You will be glorified, Your image
will be stamped upon us, and Your eternal purpose will be fulfilled,
wherein You predestined us to be conformed unto the image of Your
Son Jesus Christ.

Lord, look upon Your people. We could pray about our troubles. But
we will not. We will only pray against our sins. We might come to
You about our weariness, about our sickness, about our
disappointment, about our poverty, but we will leave all that, we
first will only come about our sin. Lord, make us holy and then do
what You will with us.

We pray You, help us to adorn the doctrine of Jesus our Savior in
all things. If we are fighting against sin --- "the sin which doth
so easily beset us" --- Lord, lend us those heavenly weapons and
give us heavenly strength that we may cut the giants down, these men
of Anak that come against us. Strengthen us Lord, we feel very
feeble.

Oh! make us strong in You O Lord and know the power of Your might.
May we never let sin have any rest in us, may we chase it, drive it
out, slay it, hang it on a tree, abhor it, and may we "cleave to
that which is good."

Some of us are trying, striving after some excellent virtue. Lord,
help those stragglers. Enable those that struggle with great
difficulties to receive greater grace, more faith, and so bring them
nearer to You our God. Lord, we desire to be holy. By Your grace we
will be holy. By Your grace, we will never rest until we are. You
have begun a good work in us and You will carry it on. You will work
in us to will and to do of Your own good pleasure.

Lord, help the converted child to be correct in his relation to his
parents. Help the Christian father and mother to be right in dealing
with children, "may they not provoke their children to anger lest
they may discourage." Take away willfulness from the young. Take
away impatience from the old. Lord, help Christians in business. May
they act honest and uprightly. May Christian employers never be hard
to their employees, to their workers, and may Christian workers,
give to their employers that which is just and equal in the way of
work in return for their wages. May we as Christians be always
standing upon our rights, but always be willing each one to minister
to the help of others.

And oh, that as Christians we might be humble! Lord, take away that
stiff-necked, that proud look. Take away from us the spirit of
"step aside, for I am holier than You." Make us condescend to men
of low estate, yes, and even to men of low morals, low character.
May we seek them out, seek their good. Oh! give to the Church an
intense love for the souls of your creation. May it make our hearts
break to think that they will perish in their sin. May we grieve
every day because of the sin of this community. Set a mark upon our
forehead and let us be known to You as marked disciples that sigh and
cry for all the abominations that are done in the midst of our city.

O God, save us from a hard heart, an unkind spirit that is
insensible to the pain of others. Lord, preserve Your people also
from worldliness, from rioting, from drunkenness, from unrestraint
and recklessness, from strife and envy, from everything that would
dishonor the name of Christ that we bear. Lord, make us holy. Our
prayer comes back to this. Make us holy. Cleanse the inside and let
the outside be clean too. Make us holy, O God. Do this for Christ's
sake. Not that we hope to be saved by our own holiness, but that
holiness is salvation. Then we are saved from sin.

Lord, help Your poor children to be holy. Oh! keep us so if we are
so. Keep us even from stumbling and present us faultless before Your
presence at last. We pray for friends that are ill, for many that
are troubled because of the illness of others. We bring before You
every case of trouble and trial known to us and ask for Your
gracious intervention. We pray for Your ministers everywhere, for
Your missionary servants. Remember those that are making great
sacrifice out in the hot sun or in the cold and frozen north.
Everywhere preserve those who for Christ's sake carry their lives
in their hands.

And our brethren at home, in poverty many of them, working for
Christ, Lord, accept them and help us to help them. Sunday school
teachers, do You remember them and those that visit from door to
door, and the city missionaries, and the praying men and women, all
who in any way endeavor to bring Christ under the notice of men. O,
help them all.

We will offer but one more prayer and it is this. Lord, look in pity
upon any who are not in Christ. May they be converted. May they pass
from death to life and they will never forget it. May they see the
eternal light for the first time and they will remember it even in
eternity. Father, help us. Bless us now for Jesus's sake. Amen.


Prayer Number 33.

Glorious Liberty.

Our Father, we bless Your name that we can say from the bottom of
our hearts, "Abba, Father." It is the most important joy of our
lives that we have become the children of God by faith which is in
Christ Jesus and we can in the deep calm of our spirit say, "Our
Father, which are in heaven, hallowed be Your name, Your kingdom
come, Your will be done in earth as in heaven."

Lord, we thank You for the liberty which comes to our emancipated
spirit through the adoption which You have made us to enjoy. We were
slaves to sin and our chains were heavy, for we could not keep Your
law. We fell short. There was an inward spirit of rebellion. When
the commandment came, it irritated our corrupt nature and sin
revived and we died.

Even when we put for efforts and strived for better things, yet the
power that was in us lusted into evil, and the spirit of the
Hagarene was upon us. We wanted to run away from You. We were wild,
people of the wilderness, and we loved not living in the Your house.

O God, we thank You that we have not been cast out. Through
sovereign grace You altered us. Blessed be Your name. It is a work
of divine power and love over human nature, for now we are the
children of the promise, certainly not born according to the
strength of the human will, or of blood, or of birth, but born by
the Holy Spirit through the power of the Word, the Good News, the
Gospel. Born again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus
Christ from the dead, children of the Great Father who is in heaven,
having Your life within us. Now, like Isaac, we are heirs according
to promise and heirs of the promise, and we dwell at home in the
Your house and our soul is satisfied as with marrow and fatness, and
our mouth will praise You with joyful lips.

O God, we would not change places with angels, much less with kings
of the earth. To be Your sons and daughters --- the thought of it
brings to our soul a present blessing and the fruition of it will
be our heaven, to dwell forever in Your house nevermore run away the
prodigal, but to be Your children and joint heirs forever and ever.

Our first prayer is for others who are still in bondage. We thank
You, Lord, that You have given them the spirit of bondage and made
them to fear. We are glad that they should be brought to feel the
evil of sin, to feel the perfection of Your law, to know something
of the fiery nature of Your justice, and so to be shut up unto
salvation by grace through faith. But, Lord, let them not spend too
much time learning the law, but may the law with its justice bring
them to Christ.

Lord, cure any of Your chosen of self-righteousness. Deliver them
from any hope in their own abilities but keep them low. Bring them
out of any hope of salvation by their own prayers or their own
repentance. Bring them to cast themselves upon Your grace to be
saved by trusting in Your Son Jesus Christ. Free them from all
observance of days, weeks, months, years, and things of human
institution, and bring them into the glorious liberty as Your
children that Your law may become their delight, Your Yourself
become their strength, their all. Your Son become their joy and
their crown. We pray this with all our hearts.

Lord, deliver any of Your children from quarreling with You. Help us
to be always at one with You our God. Blessed be Your name forever
and ever.

God, bless our country and all lands where Your name is known and
reverenced, and pour out your mercy to those lands where the name of
Jesus is still unknown. God, bless the missionaries at their
outposts, the first heralds of mercy, and everywhere may the Lord's
kingdom come and His name be glorified. Glory be unto You the
Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit as it was in the
beginning, is now, and ever will be, world without end. Amen.


Prayer Number 34.

The Music Of Praise.

O blessed God, we must be helped by Your Spirit, or we cannot worship
You as we should. Behold the holy angels adore You and the hosts
redeemed by blood bring everlasting Hallelujahs to Your feet. What
are we, the creatures of a day, polluted with sin, that we should
think that we can praise You? And yet the music of praise was not
complete if Your children did not join in it, even those who are
still in this world below. Help us, then, enable us to tune our
instruments and to bring forth music from our spirit.

Lord, if there are any creatures in the world that can praise You,
we ought to do so. Each one among us feels that they have some
special reason for gratitude. Lord, it is an unspeakable mercy to
know You --- to know You as our reconciled God, to know You as our
Father in Christ Jesus, who has forgiven us all our trespasses. Oh!
it is unspeakably blessing to come and rest in You and to know that
there is now no cause of quarrel between us and You. On the
contrary, that we are bound to one another by a covenant which in
infinite tenderness and mercy You have made it possible that Your
people might have strong consolation and might boldly take hold on
You.

Oh! the joy of knowing that we are Yours forever, Yours in the
trials of life, and Yours in the last dread trial of death, and then
Yours in resurrection, Yours throughout eternity. We do therefore
worship You, O God, not constrained by terror or pressure, but
liberated with joy and happiness, ascribing to You praise, and
power, and dominion, and glory, and honor, world without end.

We wish we knew how to do something for You. We pray that we may be
helped to do so. Yes, that in every fleeting hour we may confess
that we have brought Your Gospel some exposure, that we may live to
extend the Redeemer's kingdom at least in some little measure, that
ours may not be a fruitless, wasted life, that no ability of ours go
unused and rust, but to the best of our capacity may we be helped of
the divine Spirit to spend our whole life in real adoration.

We know that whoever prays serves. Whoever praises gives. Whoever
adores obeys. Whoever has the new life provides best music. Oh! set
us to good music, we pray You, and help us all to keep to each note
and may there be no wrong note in all the singing of our life. Let
our life be according to that sacred score which is written out so
fully in the life music of our Lord Jesus Christ.

We beg You to look down upon Your children and cheer us. Lord, lift
us up. Come, Holy Spirit, like a fresh, bracing wind and let our
spirit, through Your Spirit, rise upward toward God our Savior.

We would with much shame acknowledge our transgressions and sins.
There are some that never felt the burden of sin at all. Lord, lay
it on them. Press them with it. Almighty God, vex their souls. Let
them find no rest till they find rest in You. May they never be
content to live and die in sin, but of Your infinite mercy, come to
them and make them sorry for their sin.

As for Your people, we are grieved to think that we do not live
better than we do. Blessed be Your name forever fruit of holiness,
forever work of faith, but oh! for more. You have changed the tree.
It is no longer a bramble. It can bring forth figs, but now we want
to bring forth more of these sweet fruits.

Lord make us to love Christ intensely, to love souls most
passionately, to love Your truth with earnestness, to love the name
of Jesus above everything. May we be enthralled with the sound of
it. Lord mold us to have every grace, not only love, but faith,
and hope, and holy gentleness, meekness, patience, brotherly love.
Build us up, we pray You, Lord, in all knowledge and in all
experience, and give us with this submission to Your will, holy
resignation, great watchfulness, carefulness in our speech, that we
may rule the tongue and so rule the whole body.

Lord pour out Your Spirit upon us that every chamber of our nature
may be sweetened and perfumed with the indwelling of Your presence,
until our imagination only delights in things good and pure, until
our memory casts out the vile stuff from the dark chambers, until
we expect and long for heavenly things, and our all our treasure be
in heaven and our heart, be kept there. Take all that we have, Lord,
and saturate it in Your love, until like Gideon's fleece it is
filled with dew, every lock, and every single fleck of it, not a
single portion of it left unmoistened by the dew from heaven.

How we do bless You for many that are striving to walk as Christ
walked and who are also trying to bring others to Christ. O Lord,
help us in this struggle after holiness and usefulness and as You
have given to many the desire of their hearts in this respect up to
a certain measure, now enlarge-their hearts and give them more of
both holiness and usefulness. Oh! give us to be like trees planted
by the rivers of water, that we ourselves may be vigorous, and then
give us to bring forth abundant fruit according to our season, to
the praise and glory of Your our God.

Our desire is that we may be quickened in our progress toward the
Christian life. Visit us with Your salvation. Lord, let us not only
have life but let us have it more abundantly. May we every one of
us quicken our pace and may we run more earnestly than ever toward
the mark that is set before us.

Remember all Your Church throughout the whole world. Prosper
missionary operations. Be with any ministers or missionaries that
are depressed for lack of success. Be with any that are rejoicing
because of success. May each heart be kept in a right state, so that
You may use Your servants to the utmost of possibility.

O God, send us better days than these, we pray You. We thank You for
all the light there is but send us more light. We thank You for
what life there is among Christians but send more of it. Bind the
churches together in unity, and then give them such speed, such
force, such power that they will break into the ranks of the
adversary and the victory will be unto Christ and to His people.

Remember our dear country. Bless the president. Remember all those
that lead our legislature. Be gracious unto all ranks and conditions
of men. Have mercy upon all that are poor and needy, all that are
sick and sorrowing, and that are tossed upon the sea. Remember the
prisoners and such as have no helper. Be gracious to such as are in
the article of death and finally, let the day come when the Sun
will shine forth in all Your brightness, and Christ Jesus be
manifested, admired in them that believe and to make glad the whole
creation. Make no delay, You the Sun of Righteousness, our Lord
Jesus Christ. Amen.


Prayer Number 35.

Under The Blood.

Jehovah our God, we thank You for leaving on record the story of
Your ancient people. It is full of instruction to us. Help us
to take its warning to avoid the faults into which they fell! You
are a covenant God and You keep Your promises and Your Word never
fails. We have proved that we find every promise good that is
ratified with the blood of your Son Jesus Christ.

But as for ourselves, we are like Israel of old, a fickle people and
we confess it with great shame, there are days when we take the
timbrel and we sing with Miriam, "Unto the Lord who triumphed
gloriously," and yet we grieve to say it, not many hours after, we
are thirsty and we cry for water, and we murmur in our tents. The
brackish Marah turns our heart, and we are grieved with You our God.
Sometimes we bow before You with reverence and awe when we behold
Your Sinai altogether on a smoke, but there have been times when we
have set up the golden calf and we have said of some earthly things,
"These be Your gods, O Israel." We believe with intensity of faith
and then doubt with a horribleness of doubt.

Lord, You have been very patient with us. Many have been our
provocations, many have been Your chastisements, but ---

"Your strokes are fewer than our crimes,

And lighter than our guilt."

"You have not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us
according to our iniquities." Blessed be Your name!

And now fulfil that part of the covenant where You said, "A new
heart also will I give you and a right spirit will I put within
thee. I will put My fear in their hearts, and they will not depart
from Me." Hold us fast and then we will hold fast to You. Turn us
and we will be turned. Keep us and we will keep Your statutes.

We cry to You that we may no longer provoke You. We beg You rather to
send the serpents among us than to let sin come among us. Oh! that
we might have our eye always on the brazen serpent that heals all
the bites of evil, but may we not look to sin nor love it. Let not
the devices of Balaam and of Balak prevail against us, that lead
Your people away from their purity. Let us not be defiled with false
doctrine or with unholy living, but may we walk as the separated
people of God and keep us unspotted from the world. Lord, we
would not grieve Your Spirit. Oh! may we never vex You so as to lead
You in Your wrath to say, "They will not enter into my rest."
Bear with us still for Jesus' sake whose blood is upon us. Bear
with us still and send not the destroying angel as You did to Egypt,
but again fulfil that promise of Yours "When I see the blood I
will pass over you."

Just now may we be consciously passed over by the Spirit of
condemnation. May we know in our hearts that, "There is therefore
now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus." May we feel
the peace giving power of the divine absolution. May we come into
Your holy presence with our feet washed in the brazen laver, hearing
our great High Priest say to us, "Ye are clean every bit." And
being made clean, may we draw near to You our God through Jesus
Christ our Lord.

Further, our heavenly Father, we come before You now washed in the
blood, wearing the snow-white robe of Christ's righteousness, and
we ask You to remember Your people. Some are very burdened ---
lighten the burden or strengthen the shoulder. Some are bowed down
with fear, likely they mistrust --- forgive the mistrust and give a
great increase of faith that they may trust You where they cannot
trust You. Lord remember any who bear the burden of others. Some
cry to You day and night about the sins of the times, about the
wanderings of Your Church. Lord, hear their prayers! We would bear
this yoke for You, but help us to bear it without fearing so as to
distrust You. May we know that You will take care of Your own case
and preserve Your own truth and may we therefore be restful about it
all.

Some are crying to You for the conversion of relatives and friends.
This burden they have taken up to follow Jesus in the cross
bearing. Grant them to see the desire of their heart fulfilled. God,
save our children and children's children, and if we have
unconverted relatives of any kind, the Lord have mercy upon them for
Christ's sake. Give us joy in them --- as much joy in them as
Christians, as we have had sorrow about them as unbelievers.

Further, be pleased to visit Your Church with the Holy Spirit. Renew
the day of Pentecost in our midst, and during all
gatherings of Your people may there come the downfall of the holy
fire, the uprising of the heavenly wind. May matters that are now
slow and dead become quick and full of life and may the Lord Jesus
Christ be exalted amid Your Church, His bride, which is His fulness,
"the fulness of Him that fills all in all." May multitudes be
converted. May they come flocking to Christ with holy eagerness to
find in Him a refuge as the doves fly to their raised houses.

Oh! for salvation work throughout these lands and across the sea and
in every part of the world, especially in lands where the name of
Jesus is unknown. Bring many to Christ's feet, we pray You,
everywhere where men are ready to lay down their lives that they may
impart the heavenly life of Christ. Work, Lord, work mightily! Your
Church cries to You. Oh, don't leave us! We can do nothing without
You! Our strength is wholly in You! Come to us with great power and
let Your Word have free course and be glorified.

Remember every one that calls You Father. May Your fatherly love
look on all the children. May the special need of each one be
supplied, the special sorrow of each one be alleviated. May we be
growing Christians, may we be working Christians, may we be
perfected Christians, may we come to the fullness of Christ Jesus.
Lord Jesus, You are a great pillar. In You all fullness dwells. You
began Your earthly life filling the water pots to the full. You
filled Simon Peter's boat until it began to sink. You filled the
house where Your people met together with the presence of the Holy
Ghost. You do fill heaven now. You will surely fill all things. Fill
us, oh Lord! fill us today with all the fulness of Your presence and
make Your people joyful, and strong, and gracious, and heavenly!

But we cannot leave off our prayer when we have prayed for Your
people, though we have asked large things. We want You to look among
the thousands and millions around us who do not know You. Lord, look
on the masses who go nowhere to worship. Have pity upon them.
Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. Give them a
desire to hear Your Word. Send upon the people some desire after
their Creator. O Lord, take sinners in hand Yourself. Oh! Come and
reach the obstinate, obdurate minds. Let the careless and the
frivolous begin to think about eternal things. May there be an
uneasiness of heart, a sticking of Your arrows in their belly, and
may they seek the great physician and find healing this very day.
Ah! Lord, as You said, "Today, if ye will hear His voice," and we
take up the echo. Save people today, even today. Bring them Your
Spirit in power that they may be willing to rest in Christ. Lord,
hear, forgive, accept, and bless, for Jesus' sake. Amen.


Prayer Number 36.

On Holy Ground.

"Our Father, which are in heaven, hallowed be Your name, Your
kingdom come, Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven." O
Lord Jesus, we confess that we often begin our prayer with petitions
for ourselves and put our daily bread before Your kingdom and the
pardoning of our sins before the hallowing of Your name. We humble
ourselves before you today guided by Your model prayer, we would
first pray for Your glory and here, O God, we would adore You. It is
You that have made us and not we ourselves. We are Your people and
the sheep of Your pasture. All glory be unto You, Jehovah, the only
living and true God.

With heart and mind, and memory and fear, and hope and joy, we
worship You the Most High. We remove our shoes whos soles are filthy
with the dust of this world and draw near to You our God, for the
place whereon we stand in prayer is holy ground. If You Jehovah
demanded sandals removed when You spoke to your servant in the bush,
how much more will we approach You with honor and reverence when you
speak to us through Your Son Christ Jesus and Your Holy Spirit?

With lowliest reverence, with truest love, we worship You in Christ
Jesus, joining together with all the redeemed host above and with
all the angels, principalities, and powers unseen. We cannot cast
crowns at Your feet, for we have none as yet, but if there be any
virtue, if there be any praise, if there be about us anything of
grace and goodness, we ascribe it all to You working through us by
Your Spirit. We cannot veil our faces with wings, for we have none,
but we veil them with something better than angelic wings, the blood
and righteousness of You Son Jesus Christ. With these we cover our
faces, with these we cover our feet, and with these we fly up to You
O God in holy fellowship. Glory, and honor, and power, and dominion
be unto You that sits on the throne and unto the Lamb forever and
forever.

Great God, we long that You may be known unto the ends of the earth,
that idols may be utterly abolished. We long that false doctrine may
fly like birds of darkness before the light and Your coming. Reign
in the hearts of men and women everywhere. Lord, subdue sin and
under Your feet let drunkenness, moral impurity, and oppression, and
every form of wickedness be put away by the Gospel of Jesus Christ
and His Holy Spirit.

Oh! that today, even today, many hearts might be won to Jesus.
Convince men of the wrong of being alienated from You O God. Put
into their hearts sorrow for sin and dread of the wrath to come, and
lead and drive men to Christ. Oh! how we pray for this, the
salvation of all mankind, not so much for their sakes as for the
sake of Your glory and the reward of Christ for His pain and
unmerited suffering.

We do with all our hearts pray, "Your kingdom come, Your will be
done on earth, as it is in heaven." Lord, help us to do Your will.
Take the crippled kingdoms of this earth and reign over them. Let
spirit and body be consecrated to You O God. May there be no
reserves. May everything be given up to You. Reign forever! Pierced
King, despised and nailed to a tree, sit You on the glorious high
throne in our hearts and may our lives prove that You are Lord over
us by our every thought and desire, and imagination, and word, and
act, in every respect being under Your divine control.

Your people breathe to You out of their very hearts the prayer that
You may reign over us without a rival. O Savior, use for Yourself
what You have bought with blood, and drive out the enemy, and let no
power have any dominion over us except the power of Your Spirit
which works righteousness and peace.

We pray today also that Your truth may prevail against the many
anti-Christs that have gone forth against it. Our Father, restore a
pure language to Your Zion once again. Take away, we pray You, the
itching for new doctrine, the longing for that which is thought to
be scientific and wise above what is written, and may Your Church
come to her moorings, may she cast anchor in the truth of Your Word
and there abide. And if it be Your will, may we live to see brighter
and better times.

If it might be so, we would pray for the coming of our Lord Jesus
Christ very quickly to end these sluggish years, these long delaying
days. But if He does not come, yet put power into Your truth and
quicken Your Church that she may become energetic for the spread of
the Gospel, that so Your kingdom may come. We seek this first and
above everything, to Your glory. We ask for grace that we may live
with this end in view. May we lay ourselves out to it. May this be
our morning thought, the thought that we have in our minds when we
lay awake at night. What will I do, my Savior, to praise? How can I
make You illustrious and win another heart to Your throne? Now bless
us. Forgive us our trespasses wherein we have sinned against You.
Seal our pardon upon our consciences and make us feel that as we
truly forgive them that trespass against us, so have You forgiven us
all our iniquities. We pray You, lead us not into temptation. Do not
try us, Lord, nor suffer the devil to try us. If we must be tried
then deliver us from evil, and especially from the evil one, that he
may get no dominion over us.

Oh! keep us, Lord. This life is full of trials. There are many of us
that are perplexed about temporary things. Let not the enemy lead us
to do or think that which is amiss, because of the straightness of
supply. Others are blessed with prosperity. Lord, let it not be a
curse to them. Let them know how to abound as well as to suffer
loss. In all things may they be instructed to glorify You O God, not
only with all they are, but with all they have, and even with all
they have not, by a holy contentment to do without that which it
does not please You to bestow.

And then, Lord, give us day by day our daily bread. Provide for Your
poor people. Let them not think that the provision for themselves
rests fully on themselves, but may they cry to You, for You have
said, "Your bread will be given thee, thy waters will be sure."
If we follow You, if You lead us into a desert, You will sprinkle our
path with manna. May Your people believe this and let them have no
care, but like the birds of the air which neither sow nor gather
into barns and yet are fed, so may Your people be.

But above all, give us spiritual help. Give us wisdom, which is
profitable to get. Give us the absence of all self-seeking and a
complete yielding up of our desires to the will of God. Help us to
be as Christ was, who was not His own, but gave Himself to You His
Father for our sins. So may we for His sake give ourselves up to do
or suffer the will of You our Father who is in heaven.

Remember Your people in their families and convert their children.
Give us help and strength. Spare the little precious lives that are
in danger. Be gracious to any that are dying. May the eternal life
You provided by Christ Jesus swallow up the death of the body.
Prepare us all for Your glorious advent. Keep us waiting and
watching and come quickly to our heart's desire, for we pray,
"Your kingdom come, Your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven,
for Yours is the kingdom, and the power and the glory, forever and
ever." Amen.


Prayer Number 37.

The Wings Of Prayer.

Our Father, Your children who know You delight themselves in Your
presence. We are never happier than when we are near You. We have
found a little heaven in prayer. It has eased our load to tell You
of its weight. It has relieved our wounds to tell You of their pain.
It has restored our spirit to confess to You its wanderings. There
is no place like the Mercy Seat for us.

We thank You, Lord, that we have not only found benefit in prayer,
but in the answers to it, we have been greatly enriched. You have
opened Your hid treasures to the voice of prayer. You have supplied
our necessities as soon as ever we have cried unto You. Yes, we have
found what You said is true, "Before they call, I will answer, and
while they are yet speaking, I will hear."

We do bless You, Lord, for instituting the blessed ordinance of
prayer. What could we do without it and we take great shame to
ourselves that we should use it so little. We pray that we may
always people of prayer, taken up with it, that it may take us up
and bear us as on its wings towards heaven.

And now at this hour will You hear the voice of our supplication.
First, we ask at Your hands, great Father, complete forgiveness for
all our trespasses and shortcomings. We hope we can say with
truthfulness that we do from our heart forgive all those who have in
any way trespassed against us. There lies not in our heart, we hope,
a thought of enmity towards anyone. However, if we have been
slandered or wronged, we would, with our inmost heart, forgive and
forget it all.

We come to You and pray that, for Jesus' sake, and through the
virtue of the blood once shed for many for the remission of sins,
You would give us perfect pardon of every transgression of the past.
Blot out, O God, all our sins like a cloud and let them never be
seen again. Grant us also the peace-speaking word of promise applied
by the Holy Spirit, that being justified by faith we may have peace
with God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let us be forgiven and know
it and may there remain no lingering question in our heart about our
reconciliation with God, but by a firm, full assurance based upon
faith in the finished work of Christ, may we stand as forgiven men
and women against whom transgression will be mentioned never again
forever.

And then, Lord, we have another mercy to ask which will be the
burden of our prayer. It is that You would help us to live such
lives as a pardoned person should live. We have but a little time
here, for our life is but a vapor, soon it vanishes away, but we are
most anxious that we may spend the time of our living here in holy
fear and reverence, that grace may be upon us from the commencement
of our Christian life even to the earthly close of it.

Lord, You know there are some that have not yet begun to live for
You and the prayer is now offered that they may today be born again.
Others have been long in Your ways and are not weary of them. We
sometimes wonder that You are not weary of us, but now, more and
more, we delight ourselves in the ways of holiness more than ever we
did. Oh! that our ways were directed to keep Your statutes without
slip or flaw. We wish we were perfectly obedient in thought, and
word, and deed, entirely sanctified. We will never be satisfied
till we wake up in Christ's likeness, the likeness of perfection
itself. Oh! work us to this self-same thing, we beg You. May
experience teach us more and more how to avoid occasions of sin. May
we grow more watchful. May we have a greater supremacy over our own
spirit. May we be able to control ourselves under all circumstances
and so act that if the Master were to come at any moment, we should
not be ashamed to give our account into His hands.

Lord, we are not what we want to be. This is our sorrow. Oh! that
You would, by Your Spirit, help us in the walks of life to adorn the
doctrine of Jesus our Savior in all things. As men of business, as
employees, as parents, as children, as workers, as volunteers,
whatever we may be, may we be such that Christ may look upon us with
pleasure. May the joy of our Lord Jesus be in us, for only then can
our joy be full.

Dear Savior, we are Your disciples, and You are teaching us the art
of living, but we are very dull and very slow, and besides, there is
such a bias in our corrupt nature, and there are such examples in
the world, and the influence of an ungodly generation pressures even
upon those that know You. O dear Savior, be not impatient with us,
but still teach us at Your feet, until at last we have learned some
of the sublime lessons of self-sacrifice, of meekness, humility,
fervor, boldness, and love in which Your life is fit to teach us. O
Lord, we beg You mold us into Your own image. Let us live in You and
live like You. Let us gaze upon Your glory until we are transformed
by the light and become Christ-like among the sons of men.

Lord, hear the confessions of any that have backslidden, who are
rather marring Your image than perfecting it. Hear the prayers of
any that are conscious of great defects during the past. Give them
peace of mind by pardon, but give them strength of mind also to keep
clear of such mischief in the future. O Lord, we are sighing and
crying more and more after Yourself. The more we have of You, the
more we want You. The more we grow like You, the more we perceive
our defects and the more we long after a higher standard, to reach
even unto perfection's self.

Oh! help us. Spirit of the living God, continue still to travail in
us. Let the groanings that cannot be uttered be still within our
Spirit, for these are growing pains, and we will grow while we can
sigh and cry, while we can confess and mourn. Yet this is not
without a blessed hopefulness that You Lord Jesus that began a good
work in us will perfect it in the day of Your glorious return.

Bless, I pray You, at this time, the entire Church universal in
every part of the earth. Prosper the work and service of Christian
people, however they endeavor to spread the kingdom of Christ.
Convert those who hear your name. Enlighten those that are in any
form of error. Remove the blinders of false gods and false
religions. Bring the entire Church back to the original form of
Christianity. Make her first pure and then she will be united. O,
Savior, let Your kingdom come. Oh! that You would reign and Your
will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.

We pray You, use every one of us according as we have ability to be
used. Take us and let no talent lie idle and start rusting in the
treasure house, but may every coin of Yours be used in trading for
You in that blessed market of soul winning. Oh! give us success.
Increase those gifts and graces of everyone who is saved. Bind us in
closer unity to one another than ever. Let peace reign. Let holiness
adorn us.

Hear us as we pray for all countries, and then for all sorts of
citizens, from the president in the white house to the homeless
under the overpass. Lead us to be salt and light to them. Redeem all
to Yourself through the saving power of Your Son Jesus Christ. Let
the benediction of heaven descend on men, through Jesus Christ our
Lord. Amen.


