Prayer Number 45.

Boldness At The Throne Of Grace.

Oh God! we would not speak to You as from a distance, nor stand like
trembling Israel under the law at a distance from the burning
mountain, for we have not come unto Mount Sinai, but unto Mount Zion
and that is a place for holy joy and thankfulness, and not for
terror and bondage. Blessed be Your name, Oh Lord! We have learned
to call You "Our Father, which are in heaven"; so there is
reverence, for You are in heaven, but there is sweet familiarity,
for You are our Father.

We would draw very near to You now through Jesus Christ the Mediator
and we would be bold to speak to You as a man speaks with his
friend, for have You have said by Your Spirit, "Let us come boldly
unto the throne of the heavenly grace." We might well start away
and flee from Your face if we only remembered our sinfulness. Lord!
we do remember it with shame and sorrow. We are grieved to think we
should have offended You, should have neglected so long Your sweet
love and tender mercy, but we have now returned unto the "shepherd
and bishop of our souls." Led by such grace, we look to Jesus who
we crucified and we have mourned for Him and then have mourned for
our sin.

Now, Lord, we confess our guilt before You with tenderness of heart
and we pray You seal home to every believer here that full and free,
that perfect and irreversible charter of forgiveness which You
gave to all them that put their trust in Jesus Christ. Lord! You
have said it, "If we confess our sins, You are merciful and just to
forgive us our sins and to save us from all unrighteousness." There
is the sin confessed. There is the ransom accepted. We therefore
know we have peace with You Oh God and we bless that glorious one
who came "to finish transgression, to make an end of sin," to
bring in everlasting righteousness, which righteousness by faith we
take unto ourselves and You impute unto us.

Now, Lord, will You be pleased to cause all Your children's hearts
to dance within them for joy? Oh! help Your people to come and fall
in love with Jesus again today. May we be looking unto Him today as
we did at the first. May we never take off our eyes from His divine
person, from His infinite merit, from His finished work, from His
living power, or from the expectancy of His speedy coming to "judge
the world in righteousness and the people with His truth."

Bless all Your people with some special gift and if we might make a
choice of one, it would be this, "Quicken us, Oh Lord, according to
Your Word." We have life. Give it to us more abundantly. Oh, that
we might have so much life that out of the midst of us there might
flow rivers of living water. Lord make us useful. Do, dear Savior,
use the very least among us. Take the one talent and let it be put
out to interest for the furtherance of Your Kingdom. May it please
You to show each one of us what You would have us to do. In our
families, in our business, in the walks of ordinary life may we be
serving You Lord and may we often speak a word in Jesus' name, and
help in some way to scatter the light among the ever-growing
darkness, and when we go from here, may we have sown some seed which
we will bring with us on our shoulders in the form of sheaves of
blessing.

Oh God! bless our Sunday schools and give a greater interest in such
work, that there may be no lack of men and women who will be glad
and happy in the work of teaching the young. Do impress this, we
pray You, upon Your people just now. Move men who have gifts and
ability also to preach the Gospel. There are many that live in
places where no Gospel preaching has reached them. Lord! set them
preaching themselves. Will You move some hearts so powerfully that
their tongues cannot be quiet any longer and may they attempt in
some way, either personally or by supporting someone, to bring the
Gospel into dark places of our city that the people may know the
truth.

Oh Lord! stir up the dwellers in this great, great city. Oh! arouse
us to the spiritual destitution of the masses. Oh God, help us all
by some means, by any means, by every means to get at the ears of
the community for Christ's sake so that we may reach their hearts.
We would send up an exceeding great and bitter cry to You on behalf
of the millions that enter no place of worship on Sunday, but rather
violate its sanctity and despise its blessed message. Lord! wake up
these United States, we beg You. Send us another Jonah. Send us
another John the Baptist. Oh! that the Christ Himself would send
forth multitudes of laborers among this thick standing corn, for the
harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Oh God! save
this city. Save this state. Save this country. Save all nations and
let Your kingdom come. May every knee bow and confess that Jesus
Christ is Lord.

Our most earnest prayers go up to heaven to You now for great
sinners, for men and women that are polluted and depraved by the
filthiest of sins. With sovereign mercy make a raid among them. Come
and capture some of these that they may become great lovers of Him
that will forgive them and may they become great champions for the
cross.

Lord, look upon the multitudes of rich people in this city that know
nothing about the Gospel and do not wish to know. Oh! that somehow
the poor rich might be rich with the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Lord,
look to the multitudes of scholarly people, smart in the engineering
of Your creations, but clueless as to the Creator. Reveal Yourself
by the microscope and telescope and bring someone to show them the
Way to redemption. And then, Lord, look upon the multitude of the
poor and the working classes that think religion to be a perfectly
unnecessary thing for them. Do, by some means we pray You, get them
to think and bring them to listen that faith may come by hearing and
hearing by the Word of God.

Above all, Oh Holy Spirit, descend more mightily. Would, God, would
You flood the land until there should be streams of righteousness,
for is there not a promise, "I will pour water upon him that is
thirsty and floods upon the dry ground." Lord, set Your people
praying. Stir up the Church to greater prayerfulness.

Now, as You have commanded us, we pray for the people among whom we
dwell. We pray for those in authority in the land, asking every
blessing for the president and Your guidance and direction to the
Congress, Your benediction to all judges, governors, and mayors and
also upon the homeless, the poorest of the poor and the lowest of
the low. Lord, bless the people of this land. Let the people praise
You, Oh God! Yes, let all the people praise You, for Jesus Christ's
sake. Amen and Amen.


Prayer Number 46.

The Presence Of God.

Our Father, which are in heaven, our hearts are full of gratitude to
You for Your Word. We bless You that we have it in our houses, that
You have given to many of us to understand it and to enjoy it.
Although yet we know not what we will know, yet have we learned
from it what we never can forget that which has changed our lives
has removed our burdens, has comforted our hearts, has set our faces
like flints against sin and made us eager after perfect holiness.

We thank You, Lord, for every leaf of the Bible, not only for its
promises which are inexpressibly sweet, but for its precepts in
which our soul delights and especially for the revelation of Your
Son, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Oh God, we thank You for the
manifestation of Him even in the types and shadows of the Old
Testament. These are inexpressibly glorious to us, full of wondrous
value, inexpressibly dear because in them and through them we see
Jesus. But we bless You much more for the clear light of the New
Testament, for giving us the key to all the secrets of the Old
Testament, for now, reading the Scriptures of the New Covenant, we
understand the language of the Old Covenant and are made to joy and
to rejoice in them.

Father, we thank You for our Bibles and the labor in the
translations. We thank You for the glorious Christ, the God whom the
Bible reveals as our Savior, and now we thank You for the Blessed
Spirit, for without His light upon the understanding, we should have
learned nothing. You taught us the letter kills, it is the Spirit
that giveth life. Blessed are our eyes that have been touched with
heavenly eye-salve. Blessed are the hearts that have been softened,
that have been made ready to receive the truth in the love of it!
Blessed be the sovereign grace of You Oh God that chosen unto Jesus
a people who delight in Your Word and who meditate in it both day and
night!

Our hearts are full of praises to You Oh God for this Word of Truth,
for this unmeasured wealth of holy knowledge. Lord make us to enjoy
it more and more. May we feed upon this manna; may we drink from
this well of life. May we be satisfied with it and by it be made
like unto the image of Jesus from whom this Word became flesh and
dwelt among us.

And now, Lord, our prayer is to You at the mention of Your sacred
Word, that You would write it upon the fleshy tablets of our heart
more fully. We want to know the truth so that the truth will may
make us free. We want to feel the truth that we may be sanctified by
it. Oh! let it be in us a living seed which will produce in us a
life acceptable before You Oh God, a life which will be seen in
everything that we do, for we remember that You are not the God of
the dead but of the living.

Lord, we ask that Your Word may chasten us whenever we go astray,
may it enlighten us whenever for a moment we get into darkness. May
Your Word be the supreme ruler of our being. May we give ourselves
up to its sacred law to be obedient to its every hint, wishing in
all things, even in the least things, to do Your will from the heart
and having every thought brought into captivity to the mind of the
Holy Spirit.

Bless Your people. Bless them in this way by saturating them with
the Word of Your truth. Oh Lord, they are out in the world so much.
Oh! grant that the world may not take them away from You our God.
May they get the world under their feet. Let them not be buried in
it, but may they live upon it, treading it beneath their feet, the
spiritual getting the mastery always over the material. Oh! that
Your Word might be within us when we are in the midst of an ungodly
generation. May the Proverbs often furnish us with wisdom, the
Psalms furnish us with comfort, the Gospels teach us the way of
holiness, and the Epistles instruct us in the deep things of Your
kingdom.

Lord, educate us for a higher life and let that life begin here. May
we be always in the classroom, always disciples, and when we are out
in the world, may we be trying to put in practice what we have
learned at Jesus' feet. What Jesus tells us in darkness, may we
proclaim in the light and what He whispers in our ear in the
closets, may we sound forth upon the rooftops.

Oh! dear, dear Savior, what could we do without You. We are as yet
in banishment, we have not come into the land of light and glory. It
is on the other side the river, in the land where You dwell, Your
land of Immanuel, and until we can come to you, You be with us. We
have said unto ourselves, How will we live without our Lord and
then we have said unto You, "If Your Spirit go not with us, carry
us not up hence." Oh! be to us this day as the fiery cloudy pillar
that covered all the camp of Israel. May we dwell in You Oh God. May
we live and move in You Oh God. May we be conscious of Your presence
to a greater extent than we are conscious of anything else.

Bless the churches. Look on them, Lord. Cast an eye of love upon the
little gatherings of the faithful wherever they may be and help them
and their pastors, and may the churches be in every place a light in
the midst of this crooked and perverse generation. Oh God, we are
waiting and watching for a display of Your great power among the
people.

It is an age of great luxury and great sin and gross departures from
the truth. We beg You, defend Your own. When Your Ark was carried
captive among the Philistines and set up in the temple of Dagon,
Dagon fell before it, then did You smite Your adversaries in the
hinder parts and put them to a perpetual reproach, and You can do
the like again, and we pray it may be so. Oh! for the stretched out
hand of God. We are longing to see it in the conversion of great
multitudes by the Gospel, that those who have said, "Aha, aha, the
Gospel has lost its power," may be made foolish by the wisdom of
Christ, even as Jannes and Jambres were made foolish when they could
not do so with their enchantments, but You Oh God was with His
servant Moses.

O, Jehovah, You are the true God, God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of
Jacob, You are our God forever and ever. You will be our guide even
unto death. You who spoke by the apostles, speak again by Your
servants, and let Your Word be with as much power now as when You
said, "Let there be light, and there was light." Oh! for the
lifting up of Your voice! Let confusion and darkness once again hear
Your voice, our Creator, that makes order and that gives life. Oh!
how we desire You stirred up, our gracious God. Our prayers would
take the form of that ancient one, "Awake, awake, put on Your
strength." Are You not the God that cut Egypt down and wounded the
crocodile? Have You not the same power still to smite and to
vindicate Your own truth and deliver Your own redeemed?

Oh Lamb, slain from before the foundation of the world, You are
still to sit upon the throne, for He that is on the throne looks
like a Lamb that has been newly slain. Oh Jesus, we beg You, take to
Yourself Your great power. Divide the spoil with the strong. Take
the purchase of Your precious blood and rule from the river even
unto the ends of the earth.

Here we are before You. Look on us in great pity. Lord, bless Your
own people. With favor do You encompass us as with a shield. Lord,
save the unsaved. In great compassion draw them by the attractive
magnet of the cross, draw them to Yourself, compel them to come in
that the wedding may be furnished with guests.

With one heart we put up our prayer on the behalf of the teachers of
the young. We thank You, Lord, that so many men and women are ready
to give their Sabbath's rest to this important service. Oh! grant
that zeal for teaching the young may never burn low in the Church.
May any that are taking no part in it and who ought to be, be
aroused at once to commence the holy effort. Bless the teachers of
the senior classes. May their young men and women pass into the
Church. May there be no gap between the school and the church.
Bridge that distance by Your sovereign grace. But equally bless the
teachers of the infants and of the younger children. May conversions
go on among the young. May there be multitudes of such conversions.
In effect, we would pray that no child may leave the Sunday schools
unsaved. Oh! save the children, great Lover of the little ones. You
who would have them suffered to come to You, we know You will not
forget them, but You will draw them and accept them. Lord! save the
children. Let all the Sunday schools participate in the blessing
which we seek and by this blessed agency, may this nation be kept
from heathenism, this city especially be preserved from its blatant
disregard of the Sabbath, and its carelessness about eternal things.
Oh! bless the Sunday schools in this city and the surrounding areas.
Let Jesus Christ be glorified among the little ones, and again may
there be heard loud hosannas in the streets of Jerusalem from the
babes and sucklings out of whose mouths You have ordained strength.
Lord be with these dear workers throughout today and make it a high
day, a festival of prayer and faith, a time when Jesus the Lord
will especially meet with them and bless them.

God bless our country! God bless our president! Grant guidance at
this time to all with regard to the political affairs of this
nation. Grant Your blessing to all ranks and conditions of men and
let every nation call You "blessed" Let all tongues speak the name
of Jesus and all the citizens own Him as Lord and King. We ask this
in Jesus' name. Amen.


Prayer Number 47.

The Look Of Faith.

Our Father, we have listened to Your gracious words. Truly Your
paths are luxurious. Wherever You are, mercy abounds. Before Your
feet, rivers of grace spring up. When You come to us, it is with the
fullness of pardoning love. You have asked us to come to You and
seek You while You may be found. We would come now. May Your Holy
Spirit help us! May Jesus lead the way and be our Mediator now!

Blessed be Your name. There are many who sought Your face many years
ago. We have since then tasted that You are gracious, and we know by
a delightful experience that You indeed give milk and honey to such
as trust You. Oh! we wish we had known You earlier.

Lord, You have been full of truth and faithfulness to us throughout
every step of our journey and though You have not withheld the rod
of the covenant from us, we are as grateful this morning for the
kisses of Your lips. You have dealt well with Your servants
according to Your Word. Blessed be Your name forever and ever.

But there are some who have never come to You. They are hearers, but
hearers only. They have listened to gracious invitations many times,
but they have never accepted them. Say unto them, "Thereto have
thou gone, but no further shalt thou proceed in thy carelessness and
trifling. Here shalt thou stay and turn unto Your God." Oh Savior,
You have all power in heaven and earth, therefore You can through
the preaching of Your Word influence the hearts of men. Turn them
and they will be turned. Oh! do it this day.

We would now come in prayer, as we first came, would we come again.
We would renew our vows. We would again repeat our repentance and
our faith and then look at the brazen serpent and touch but the
border of Your garment. We would begin again. Oh Lord, help us to do
it in sincerity and truth. And first, we do confess that we are by
nature lost and by practice ruined. We are altogether as an unclean
thing and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. We would lie
at those dear pierced feet, bleeding at heart because of sin,
wounded, mangled, crushed by the fall and by our own transgression.
We confess that if You should number our sins upon us and deal with
us accordingly, we should be sent to the lowest hell.

We have no merit, no claim, no righteousness of our own. Oh! now,
dear Savior, we look up to You. Oh! that some might look for the
first time and those of us that have long looked would fix our happy
gaze again upon that blessed substitutionary sacrifice wherein is
all our hope. Dear Savior, we do take You to be everything to us,
our sin-bearer and our sin-destroyer. We have not a shadow of a
shade of a hope anywhere but in Yourself, Your life, Your death,
Your resurrection, Your ascension, Your glory, Your reign, Your
second advent. These are the only stars in our sky.

We look up to You and are filled with light. But Oh You dear, dear
Savior, we dare not turn to ordinances, we dare not turn to our own
prayers and tears and almsgivings. We dare not look to our own
works. We only look to You. Your wounds, Immanuel, these bleed the
balm that heals our wounds. Your crowned head, once encompassed with
thorns, Your body, once laid in the silent tomb, Your Godhead, once
covered and concealed from man, but now resplendent amidst
triumphant hosts. If we can perish trusting in You, we must perish,
but we know we cannot, for You have bound up our salvation with Your
glory and because You are a glorious Savior forever, none that trust
in You will ever be confounded.

But we do trust You now. If all our experience has been a
mistake, yet we will begin at the cross today or if we have never
had any experience of You before, we would begin today.

By Your agony and bloody sweat, by Your cross and passion, by Your
precious death and burial, we beg You, hear us now! We plead with
You for some that are not pleading for themselves, Oh Spirit of God,
let it not be so any longer. Now sweetly use Your key to open the
fast-closed door and come into hearts and dwell there that souls may
live. We have a thousand things to ask. We should like to plead for
our country and for all the nations. We should like to plead with
You for the sick and for the dying, for the poor and for the
fatherless. We have innumerable blessings to ask, but somehow, they
all go away from our prayer just now and this is our one cry, Save,
Lord, we beg You, even now send salvation! Come Holy Spirit to open
blind eyes and unstop deaf ears and quicken dead hearts.

Father, glorify Your Son that Your Son may glorify You. Holy Spirit,
do Your office and take of these things of Christ and reveal them
unto us. We gather up all our prayers in that salvation through the
blood of the Lamb. Amen.


Prayer Number 48.

Deliver Us From Evil.

Oh God, let us not be formalists or hypocrites at this time in
prayer. We feel how easy it is to bow the head and cover the face
and yet the thoughts may be all astray, and the mind may be
wandering across our schedule, cares, and responsibilities, so that
there will be no real prayer at all. Come, Holy Spirit, help us to
feel that we are in the immediate presence of Almighty God and may
this thought lead us to sincere and earnest petitioning.

There are some who know not Jesus Christ. God is not in all their
thoughts. They make no reckoning of You, You glorious One, but do
their business and guide their lives as if there was no God in
heaven or in earth. Strike them now with a sense of Your presence.
Oh! that Your eternal power might come before their thoughts and now
may they join with Your reverent people in approaching Your Mercy
Seat.

We come for mercy, great God. It must always be our first request,
for we have sinned, sinned against a just and holy law of which our
conscience approves. We are evil, but Your law is holy and just and
good. We have offended knowingly. We have offended again and again.
After being chastened, we have still offended and even those of us
who are forgiven, who through Your rich love have been once for all
washed from every stain, yet have we sinned grievously and we
confess it with much shame and bitter self-reproach that we should
sin against such tender love, and against the indwelling of the Holy
Spirit, who is in Your children and who checks them and quickens
their consciences, so that they sin against light and knowledge when
they sin.

Wash us yet again. And when we ask for this washing, it is not
because we doubt the efficacy of former cleansing. Then we were
washed in blood. Now, Oh Savior, repeat upon us what You did to the
twelve when You did take a towel and basin and wash their feet. And
when that was done, You did tell them that he who had been washed
had no need save but to wash his feet. After that was done, he was
clean every bit. Oh! let Your children be in that condition this
morning --- clean every bit --- and may they know it and thus being
clean, may they have boldness to enter the Holy of Holies by
the blood of Christ and may they now come and stand where the
cherubim once were, where the glory still shines forth. And may we,
before a blood-besprinkled Mercy Seat, ourselves washed and
cleansed, pour out our prayers and praises.

As for those that never have been washed, we repeat our prayer for
them. Bring them, oh! bring them at once to a sense of sin. Oh! that
we might see them take their first complete bath and may they become
henceforth the blood-washed and blood-redeemed consecrated ones,
belonging forever unto Him who has made them white through His
atoning sacrifice.

And blessed Lord, since You permit Your washed ones to come close to
Yourself, we would approach You now with the courage which comes of
faith and love and ask of You this thing. Help us to overcome every
tendency to evil which is still within us and enable us to wear
armor of such proof that the arrows of the enemy from without may
not penetrate it, that we may not be wounded again by sin. Deliver
us, we pray You, from doubts within and fears without, from
depression of spirit, and from the outward assaults of the world.
Make us and keep us pure within and then let our life be conducted
with such holy jealousy and watchfulness that there may be nothing
about us that will bring dishonor to Your name. May those who most
carefully watch us see nothing but what will adorn the doctrine of
God our Savior in all things.

Lord, help Your people to be right as parents. May none of us spoil
our children. May there be no misconducted families to cry out
against us. Help us to be right as employers. May there be no
oppression, no hardness, and unkindness. Help us to be right as
employees. May there be no eye-service, no purloining, but may there
be everything that adorns the Christian character. Keep us right as
citizens. May we do all we can for our country and for the times in
which we live. Keep us right, we pray You, as citizens of the higher
country. May we be living for it, to enjoy its privileges, and to
bring others within its borders, that multitudes may be made
citizens of Christ through our means. Lord, help us to conduct
ourselves right as church members. May we love our Church family.
May we seek their good, their edification, their comfort, their
health. And oh! may such of us as are called to preach have grace
equal to that responsibility. Lord, make every Christian to be clear
of the blood of all those round about him. We know that there are
some who profess to be Your people, who do not seem to care one bit
about the souls of their fellow citizens. God forgive this
inhumanity to their community, this treason to the King of kings.
Rouse the Church, we pray You, to a tenderness of heart towards
those live among us.

Let all the churches feel that they are ordained to bless their
neighbors. Oh! that the Christian Church might begin to take upon
itself its true burden. Let the Church in this city especially, with
its mass of moral poverty and sin round about it, care for the
people and love the people, and may all Christians stir themselves
that something may be done for the good of souls and for the glory
of God. Lord, use us for Your glory. Shine upon us, Oh Emmanuel,
that we may reflect Your brightness. Dwell in us, Oh Jesus, that out
of us may come the power of Your life. Make Your Church to work
miracles, because the miracle-worker is in the midst of her. Oh!
send us times of revival, seasons of great refreshing, and then
times of aggression, when the army of the Lord of hosts will push
its way into the very center of the adversary and overthrow the foe
in the name of the King of kings. Now forgive Your servants all that
has been amiss and strengthen in Your servants all that is good and
right. Sanctify us to Your service and hold us to it. Comfort us
with Your presence. Elevate us into Your presence. Make us like
Yourself. Bring us near Yourself and in all things glorify Yourself
in us, whether we live or die.

Bless the poor, remember the needy among Your own people. Help them.
Bless the sick and be very near the dying. The Lord comfort them.

Bless our country, let every mercy rest upon the president. Send
peace to disquieted districts. Give wisdom to our congressmen in the
making and in the seeing to the keeping of the law. And may Your
kingdom come not here only, but in every land and nation. Lands
across the world, remember with the plenitude of Your grace. Let the
whole earth be filled with Your glory. We ask it for Jesus' sake.
Amen.


Prayer Number 49.

The Washing Of Water By The Word.

Jehovah, our God, You love Your people, You have placed all the
saints in the hand of Jesus and You have given Jesus to be to them a
leader, a commander, and a husband and we know that You delight to
hear us cry on the behalf of Your Church for You care for Him and
You are ready to grant to Him according to the covenant provisions
which You have laid up in store for Christ Jesus. Therefore, would
we begin this prayer by asking You to behold and visit the vine and
the vineyard which Your right hand planted. Look upon Zion the city
of our earnestness. Look upon those whom You have chosen from before
the foundation of the world, whom Christ hath redeemed with blood,
whose hearts He has won and holds, and who are His own though they
be in the world.

Holy Father, keep Your people, we beg You, for Jesus' sake Though
they are in the world, let them not be of it, but may there be a
marked distinction between them and the rest of mankind. Even as
their Lord was holy, harmless, and undefiled, and separate from
sinners, so may it be with believers in Christ. May they follow Him
and may they not know the voice of strangers, but come out from the
rest that they may follow Him without the camp.

We cry to You for the preservation of Your Church in the world and
especially for her purity. Oh Father, keep us, we beg You with all
keeping, that the evil one touch us not. We will be tempted, but
let him not prevail against us. In a thousand ways, he will lay
snares for our feet, but oh! deliver us as a bird from the snare of
the fowler. May the snare be broken that we may escape. Let not Your
Church suffer dishonor at any time, but may her garments be always
white. Let not such as come in among her that are not of her utterly
spoil her. Oh Christ, as You did groan concerning Judas, so may Your
children cry to You concerning any that have fallen aside into
crooked ways, lest the cause of Christ in the earth should be
dishonored. Oh God, cover, we beg You, with Your feathers all the
people of Christ and keep Your Church even until Jesus will come
Who, having loved His own that were in the world, loves them even to
the end.

We would ask just now that we may be washed as to our feet. We trust
You have bathed us once for all in the sin-removing fountain. You
have also washed us in the waters of regeneration and given us the
renewing of our minds, through Jesus Christ, but Oh for daily
cleansing. Do You see any fault in us? Yes, we know that You do.
Wash us that we may be clean. Are we deficient in any virtue? Oh!
supply it that we may exhibit a perfect character to Your glory who
has made us anew in Christ Jesus. Or is there something that would
be good if not carried to excess? Please modify it lest one virtue
should slaughter another and we should not be the image of Christ
completely.

Oh Lord and Master, You who did wash Your disciples' feet of old,
still be very patient toward us, very condescending towards our
provoking faults, and go on with us, we pray You, till Your great
work will be completed, and we will be brethren of the First Born,
like unto Him. Gracious Master, we wish to conquer self in every
respect. We desire to live for the glory of God and the good of our
fellow men. We would have it true of us as of our Master, "He saved
others, Himself He cannot save." Will You enable us especially to
overcome the body with all its affections and lusts. May the flesh
be kept under. Let no appetite of any kind of the grosser sort
prevail against us, lest we be dishonored and unclean. And let not
even the most refined power of the natural mind be permitted to come
so forward as to mar the dominion of Your Holy Spirit within us.

Oh! help us not to be so easily moved even by pain, may we have much
patience, and let not the prospect of death ever cause us any fear,
but may the Holy Spirit get so much the mastery of the body that we
know nothing can truly hurt our soul. The inner newborn cannot be
smitten, nor is it to die. It is holy, incorruptible, and lives and
abide forever in the life that is in Christ Jesus.

Oh! for a complete conquest of self. Especially render us insensible
to praise, lest we be too sensitive to censure. Let us reckon that
to have the approbation of God and of our own conscience is quite
enough and may we be content, gracious God, to bear the criticism of
unreasonable men. Yes, and to bear the misrepresentations of our own
family and brothers and sisters in Christ. Those that we love, if
they love not us, yet may we love them none the less, and if by
mistake they misjudge us, let us have no hard feelings towards them,
and God grant we may never misjudge one another. Are You not the
only Judge with the gavel? Oh! keep us like little children who do
not know, but expect to know hereafter and are content to believe
things which they do not understand. Lord, keep us humble,
dependent, yet serenely joyful. May we be calm and quiet even as a
weaned child, yet may we be earnest and active.

Oh Savior, make us like Yourself. We wish not so much to do as to
be. If You will make us to be right, we will do right. We find how
often we have to put a constraint upon ourselves to be right, but
oh! that we were like You, Jesus, so that we had but to act out
ourselves, to act out perfect holiness. We will never rest till
this is the case, till You have made us ourselves to be inwardly
holy, and then words and actions must be holy as a matter of course.
Now, here we are, Lord, and we belong to You. Oh! it is because we
are Your own that we have hope. You will make us worthy of You. Your
possession of us is our hope of perfection. You wash our feet
because we are Your own. Oh! how sweet is the mercy which first took
us to its heart and made us all its own and now continues to deal
tenderly with us, that being Christ's own we may have that of
Christ within us which all may see proves us to be Christ's own!

Now we would bring before You all Your saints and ask You to attend
to their trials and troubles. Some we know are afflicted in person,
others are afflicted in their dear friends, some are afflicted in
their temporal estate and are brought into great distress. Lord, we
do not know the trials of all Your people, but You do, for You are
the Head, and the pains of all the members are centered in You. Help
all Your people even to the end.

Now we pray You to grant us the blessing which we have already
sought and let it come upon all the churches of our beloved country.
May the Lord revive true and undefiled religion here and in all the
other lands where Christ is known and preached, and let the day come
when heathendom will become converted, when the crescent of
Mohammed will wane into eternal night, and when she that sits on
the Seven Hills and exalts herself in the place of God will be
cast down to sink like a millstone in the flood.

Let the blessed Gospel of the eternal God prevail, let the whole
earth be filled with His glory. Oh! that we may live to see that
day. The Lord bless our country. Have pity upon it. God bless the
president with every mercy and blessing. Grant that there may be in
Your infinite wisdom a change in the state of trade and commerce,
that there may be less unemployment and distress. Oh! let the people
see Your hand and understand why it is laid upon them, that they may
turn from wrongdoing and seek righteousness and follow peace.
Then will the blessing return. The Lord hear us as in secret we
often cry to You on behalf of this misled land. The Lord deliver it
and lift up the light of Your countenance upon it yet again, for
Jesus' sake. Amen.


Prayer Number 50.

Prayer Answered And Unanswered.

God of Israel, God of Jesus Christ, our God forever and ever! Help
us now by the sacred Spirit to approach You rightly with deepest
reverence, not with abject fear, but with holiest boldness, but not
with presumption. Teach us as children to speak to You as the Father
and yet as creatures to bow before our You as our Maker.

Father, we would first ask You whether You have anything against us
as Your children? Have we been asking somewhat of You amiss and have
You given us that which we have sought? We are not conscious of it,
but it may be so, and now we are brought as an answer to our
presumptuous prayers into a more difficult position than the one we
occupied before. Now it may be that some creature comfort is nearer
to us than to You our God. It would be better without it and have
dwelt in You our God and have found our joy in Christ. But now,
Lord, in these perilous circumstances, give us grace that we may not
turn away from You.

If our position now be not such as You would have allotted to us had
we been wiser, yet nevertheless, grant that we may be taught to
behave ourselves aright even now lest the mercies You have given
should become a cause of stumbling, and the obtaining of our
hearts' desire should become a temptation to us. Rather do we feel
inclined to bless You for the many occasions in which You have not
answered our prayer, for You have said that we did ask amiss and
therefore, we could not have, and we desire to register this prayer
with You that whensoever we do ask amiss, You would in great wisdom
and love be pleased to refuse us.

O, Lord, if we at any time press our suit without a sufficiency of
resignation, do not regard us, we pray You, and though we cry unto
You day and night concerning anything, yet if You see that we are in
error, regard not the voice of our cry, we pray You. It is our
hearts' desire now, in our coolest moments, that this prayer of
ours might stand on record as long as we live, not as I will, but as
You will.

But, Oh Lord, in looking back we are obliged to remember with the
greatest gratitude the many occasions in which You have heard our
cry. We have been brought into deep distress and our heart has sunk
within us, and then have we cried to You and You have never refused
to hear us. The prayers of our lusts, You have rejected, but the
prayers of our necessities, You have granted. Not one good thing has
failed of all that You have promised.

You have given to us exceedingly and abundantly above what we asked or
even thought, for there was a day when our present condition would
have been regarded as much too high for us ever to reach, and in
looking back we are surprised that those who did lie among the pots
of Egypt should now sit every man under his vine and fig-tree, that
those who wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way should now
find a city to dwell in, that we who were prodigals in rags should
now be children in the our Father's bosom, that we who were
companions of pigs should now be made Your heirs and joint heir's
with Christ. Oh! what encouragement we have to pray to such a
prayer-hearing God who far exceeds the request of His children.

Blessed be the name of the Lord forever, our inmost heart is saying.
Amen, blessed be His name. If it were only for answered prayer or
even for some unanswered prayers, we would continue to praise and
bless You as long as we have any being.

And now, Lord, listen to the voice of Your children's cry. Wherever
there is a sincere heart seeking for greater holiness, please answer
that request, or wherever there is a broken spirit seeking for
reconciliation with Yourself, please answer it now. You know where
there is prayer, though it be unuttered, and even the lips do not
move. Oh! hear the publican who dares not lift his eye to heaven.
Hear him while he cries, "God be merciful to me a sinner." Hear
such as seem to themselves to be appointed unto death. Let the
sighing of the prisoner come before You! Oh! that You would grant
peace and rest to every troubled spirit all over the world who now
desires to turn his face to the cross and to see Christ Jesus. Oh
Lord, if there are any of Your servants burdened about the cases of
others, we would thank You for them. Raise up in the Church many
intercessors who will plead for the prosperity of Zion and give You
no rest till You establish her and make her a joy in the land.

Oh! there are some of us that cried to You about our country. You
know how in secret we groaned and sighed over evil times and You
have begun to hear us already, for which we desire to praise and
bless Your name. But we would not cease to pray for this land that
You would roll away from it all its sin, that You would deliver it
from the curse of drunkenness, rescue it from infidelity, from moral
impurity, bitterness, from ritualism, from rationalism, and every
form of evil, that this land might become a holy land.

O, Lord, bring the multitudes of the working men to listen to the
Gospel. Break in, we pray You, upon their indifference. Lord, give
them a love of Your house, a desire to hear Your Gospel, and then
will You look upon the poor rich who so many of them know nothing
about You and are worshipping their own wealth. The Lord grant that
the many for whom there are no special Gospel services, but who are
wrapped up in self-righteousness, may be brought to hear the Gospel
of Jesus that they also, as well as the poor, may be brought to
Christ.

God bless this land with more of Gospel light and with more of
Gospel life and love. You will hear us, Oh Lord.

Then would we pray for our children, that they might be saved. Some
of us can no longer pray for our children's conversion, our prayers
are heard already. But there are others who have children who
trouble them and grieve their hearts. Oh God, save sons and
daughters of godly people. Let them not have to sigh over their
children as Eli did and as Samuel did, and may they see their sons
and daughters become the children of the living Christ. We would
pray for our servants, for our neighbors, for our relatives near or
far, that all might be brought to Jesus. Do You this, Oh God, of
Your infinite mercy.

And as we are now making intercession, we would, according to Your
Word, pray for the president, and all that are in authority. Help us
to lead quiet and peaceable lives. We pray for all the other nations
also. Oh Lord, bless and remember the lands that sit in darkness and
let them see a great light, and may missionary enterprise be
abundantly successful. And let the favored nations where our God is
known, especially this land and every land that loves the same
Savior, be always favored with the divine presence and with abundant
prosperity and blessing.

Oh Lord, You have chosen Your children multiplied them on the face
of the earth. In us may it be fulfilled the blessing of Abraham, "I
will bless you and ye will be a blessing." And now, Father,
glorify Your Son! In scattering pardons through His precious blood,
glorify Your Son! In sending forth the Eternal Spirit to convince
men and bring them to His feet, Father glorify Your Son! In
enriching Your saints with gifts and graces and building them up
into His image, Father glorify Your Son! In the gathering together
of the whole company of His elect and in the hastening of His
kingdom and His coming, Father glorify Your Son! Beyond this prayer
we cannot go, "Glorify Your Son that Your Son also may glorify
You," and unto Father, Son, and Holy Spirit be glory forever and
ever. Amen.


