Prayer Number 38.

Bless The Lord O My Soul.

Lord, we are longing to draw near, may Your Spirit draw us near. We
come by the way of Christ our Mediator. We could not approach You, O
God, if it were not for Jesus, but in Him we come boldly to the
throne of heavenly grace. Nor can we come without thanksgiving ---
thanksgiving from the heart, such as the tongue can never express.
You have chosen us from before the foundation of the world and this
fountain of mercy sends out streams of loving-kindness never
ceasing. Because we were chosen, we have been redeemed with His
precious blood. Bless the Lord! And we have been called by the Holy
Spirit out of the world and we have been led to obey that wondrous
call which hath quickened us and renewed us, and made us the Your
people O God, given us adoption into Your divine family. Bless You O
Lord!

Our hearts would pause as we remember the greatness of each one of
Your favors and we would say, "Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all
that is within me, bless His holy name." When we consider our utter
unworthiness before conversion and our great faultiness since, we
can but admire the riches of abounding grace which You have
manifested to us unworthy ones. Bless You Lord! And when we think of
all that You have promised to give, which our faith embraces as
being really ours, since the covenant makes it certain, we know not
how to abundantly utter the memory of Your great goodness. We wish
we could make our praises equal to our expectations and our
expectations equal to Your promises. We can never rise so high. We
give to You, however, the praise of our entire being. Unto You
Jehovah, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,
the Creator of the world, the redeemed of men, unto Jehovah be glory
forever and ever and let all His people praise Him. Let all the
redeemed of the Lord say so, all who You redeemed from the hand of
the enemy.

O Lord, Your works praise You, but Your saints bless You and this
will be our heaven. Yes, our heaven of heavens eternally to praise
and magnify You, the great and ever blessed God. May many men,
women, and children join in chorus and say with the virgin Mary of
old, "My soul doth magnify the Lord and my spirit doth rejoice in
God my Savior." May there be going up this day sweet incense, of
praise laid by holy hands, privately upon the altar Oh God. May the
place be filled with the smoke thereof, not perhaps to the
consciousness of everyone, but to the acceptance of You our God who
will smell a sweet aroma of rest in Christ and then in the praises
of Your people in Jesus.

But, Lord, when we have praised You, we have to fold the wing. Yea,
we have to cover our face and cover our feet and stand before You to
worship in another fashion, for we confess that we are evil, evil in
our original state, and though renewed by sovereign grace, Your
people cannot speak of being clean, rid of sin. There is sin which
dwells in us which is our daily plague. O God, we humble ourselves
before You. We ask that our faith may clearly perceive the blood of
the atonement and the covering of the perfect righteousness of
Christ, and may we come afresh, depending alone on Jesus. May we
join with the Apostle Paul an confess that even if we are the
greatest of sinners, Jesus died for me. May this be our one hope,
that Jesus died and rose again, and that for His sake we are
accepted in the Beloved.

May every child of Yours have their conscience purged from dead
works to serve You, the true and living God. May there be no cloud
between us and You Heavenly Father. No, not even a mist, not even
the morning mist that is gone so soon. May we walk in the light as
You are in the light. May our fellowship with You the Father and
with Your Son, Jesus Christ, be unquestionable. May it be fuel. May
it fill us with joy. May it be a most real fact this day. May we
enjoy it to the full, knowing in whom we have believed, knowing who
is our Father, knowing who it is that dwells in us, even the Holy
Spirit.

Take away from us everything which now might hinder our delighting
ourselves in You O God. May we come to You this day with a supreme
joy. May we speak of You like the Psalmist "God my exceeding joy;
yea, mine own God is He." O God, give us a sense of property in
Yourself. May we come near to You, having no doubt and nothing
whatsoever that will spoil the beautiful simplicity of a childlike
faith which looks up into Your great face and says, "Our Father,
which are in heaven."

There are those who never repented of sin and never believed in
Christ and consequently Your wrath abides on them. They are living
without You O God. They are living in darkness. O Lord, in Your
great mercy look upon them. They do not look at You, but do You look
at them. May the sinner see their sin and mourn it, see His Savior
and accept Him, see himself saved and going on his way rejoicing.
Father, grant this to us.

Once more we pray You, bless Your Church. Lord, quicken the
spiritual life of believers. You have given to Your Church great
activity, for which we thank You. May that activity be supported by
a corresponding inner life. Let us not get to be busy here and there
like Martha and forget to sit at Your feet with Mary. Lord, restore
to Your Church the love of strong doctrine. May Your truth yet
prevail. Purge out from among Your Church those who would lead
others away from the truth as it is in Jesus and give back the old
power and something more. Give us Pentecost. Yes, many Pentecosts in
one and may we live to see Your Church shine forth clear as the sun
and fair as the moon, and terrible as an army with banners.

God grant that we may live to see better days. But if perilous times
should come in these last days, make us faithful. Raise up in these
United States men and women that will hold the truth firmly as
their fathers did. Raise up in every nation, where there has been a
faithful church, men and women that will not let the vessel drift
upon the rocks. O God of the Judges, You who did raise up first one
and then another when the people went astray from You, raised up for
us still (our Joshuas are dead) our Deborahs, our Baraks, our
Gideons, and Jephthahs, and Samuels, that will maintain for You
Your truth and worst the enemies of Israel. Lord, look upon Your
Church in these days. Lord, revive us. Lord, restore us. Lord, give
power to Your Word again that Your name may be glorified.

Remember the Church in this land in all its various phases and
portions, and pour out Your Spirit upon it. Remember the multitude
of Your people across the earth, prosper them, bless them with the
increase of followers of Christ. And wherever You have a people, may
Jesus dwell with them and reveal Himself to His own, for Christ's
sake, to whom be glory with the Father and with the Holy Ghost,
forever and ever. Amen.


Prayer Number 39.

The Peace Of God.

Our God, we stand not afar off as Israel did in Sinai, nor does a
veil hang dark between Your face and ours, but the veil is rent by
the death of our divine Lord and Mediator, Jesus Christ, and in His
name we come up to the Mercy Seat all blood being sprinkled, and
here we present our prayers and our praises accepted in Him through
the intercession of the Holy Spirit. We do confess that we are
guilty. We bow our heads and confess that we have broken Your law
and the covenant of which it is a part. Had You dealt with us under
the covenant of works, none of us could stand. We must confess that
we deserve Your wrath and to be banished forever from Your presence.
But You have made a new covenant and we come under its divine
shadow. We come in the name of Jesus. He is our High Priest. He is
our righteousness. He is the well-beloved in whom You are
well-pleased.

Holy Spirit, teach us how to pray. Let us know what we should pray
for as we ought. Our first prayer is, Let Jesus be adored. Let Jesus
reign over the whole earth. Hallowed be the Name of Jesus. We desire
to see all men submit themselves to His gracious government. We
especially wish that in the hearts of Your own there may be an
intense love for Christ and a perfect obedience to God our Father.
Grant this to each one of us. We would each one pray, "Sanctify me.
Make me obedient. Write Your law upon my heart and upon my mind."
Make our nature so clean that temptation cannot defile it.

"Lead us not into temptation but deliver us from the evil one."
May our course be very clean, our path be very straight. May we keep
our garments unspotted from the world and in thought and desire and
imagination, in will and in purpose, may we be holy as God is holy.

O God, we pray again, fulfill that covenant promise where You said,
"I will take away the heart of stone out of your flesh, and I will
give you a heart of flesh." May we be very tender towards You. May
we feel Your faintest monition. May even the gentlest breath of Your
Spirit suffice to move us. May we not be "as the horse or as the
mule which have no understanding; whose mouth must be held in with
bit and bridle, lest they come near unto us," but may we be as
children obedient to a father. May we yield our members cheerfully
to the instruments of righteousness. May we have a natural desire
wrought in the new nature towards everything that is pure and
honest, unselfish, and Christ-like.

O Spirit of God, dwell in us. Is not this also a covenant promise,
"I will put My Spirit within thee, and I will make thee to walk in
My ways." Dwell with us, Holy Spirit. Rule over us, Holy Spirit.
Transform us to the likeness of Jesus, O Holy Spirit! Then will we
be clean, then will we keep the law. We would offer a prayer to You
for those who are quite strange to the work of the Spirit of God,
who have never owned their God, who have lived as if there were no
God. Open their eyes that they may see our Almighty God even though
that sight should make them tremble and wish to die. Oh, let none of
us live without our God and Father. Take away that heart of stone,
take away the frivolities, the levity, the giddiness of our youth,
and give us in downright earnest to seek true happiness where alone
it can be found, in reconciliation to You O God, and in conformity
to Your will.

Lord, save the careless, save the sinful, the drunkard, take away
from him his cups. The unholy and unjust men, deliver these from
their filthiness. The dishonest and false, renew them in their lives
and any that are lovers of pleasure, dead while they live, and any
that are lovers of self, whose life is bounded by the narrowness of
their own being, the Lord renew them, regenerate them, make them new
creatures in Christ Jesus. For this we do fervently pray.

Lord God the Holy Ghost may faith grow in men. May they believe in
Christ to the saving of their souls. May their little faith brighten
into strong faith and may their strong faith ripen into the full
assurance of faith. May we all have this last blessing. May we
believe God fully. May we never waver. Resting in the great Surety
and High Priest of the New Covenant may we feel "the peace of God
which passes all understanding," and may we enter into rest.

Bless Your people that are at rest and deepen that rest. May the
rest that You give be further enhanced by the rest which they find
when they take Your yoke upon them and learn of You. May Your Word
be very sweet to them. May there come over our spirits a deep calm,
as when Christ hushed both winds and waves. May we feel not only
resignation to Your will, but delight in it, feeling pleased with
all the Lord provides. May we rest in You our God and be quite happy
in the thought that our sins and our iniquities You will remember no
more. You have brought us into covenant with Christ. A covenant
which can never fail, so like David we may say this morning,
"Although my house be not so with God, yet He hath made with me an
everlasting covenant, ordered in all things and sure."

Lord, bless Your Word throughout the world. Prosper all missions
among the Muslims, Hindus, and all that deny or resist the good news
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Send Your grace to the churches at
home. Turn the current of thought which sets so strong in the wrong
direction and bring men to love the simplicities of the Gospel.
Remember our country in great mercy and in all ranks and conditions
of men give a blessing. May there be multitudes come to Christ from
among the poorest of the poor and greatest of the wealthy be led
away from their sin and brought to Jesus' feet. Be gracious to the
president and leaders in Congress, Judges, and to all that are in
authority over us. May peace and order be maintained and let not the
peace of the world be broken.

But what of all this? Our heart goes far beyond all this, "Your
will be done on earth, as it is in heaven; for Yours is the kingdom,
and the power and the glory, forever and ever." "Come, Lord Jesus,
come quickly." All things are in Your hand, come quickly; the cries
of Your people persuade You, "The Spirit and the bride say, come,"
make no delay, O, our Redeemer, and unto the Father, to the Son, and
to the Holy Ghost, the God of Abraham and God of our Lord Jesus
Christ be glory forever and ever. Amen.


Prayer Number 40.

He Ever Lives.

Our God, we come to You by Jesus Christ who has gone within the veil
on our behalf and ever lives to make intercession for us. Our poor
prayers could never reach You were it not for Him, but His hands are
full of sweet perfume which makes our pleading sweet with You. His
blood is sprinkled on the Mercy Seat and now we know that You will
always hear those who approach You through that ever-blessed name.

We have deeply felt our entire unworthiness even to lift our eyes
to the place where Your honor dwells. You have made us to die to our
self-righteousness. We pray now because we have been quickened. We
have received a new life and the breath of that life is prayer. We
have risen from the dead and we also make intercession through the
life which Christ has given us. We plead with You, the living God,
with living hearts because Jesus Christ has made us to live.

Our first prayer will be for those who do not pray. There is an
ancient promise of Your, "I am found of them that sought Me not; I
said, Behold Me, behold Me, to a people that were not a people."
Prove the sovereignty of Your grace, the priority of Your power,
which runs before the will of man, by making many willing in this
the day of Your power, and calling the things that are not as though
they were. May the day come in which they that are in their graves
will hear Your voice O God and they that hear will live.

How often You show Your mighty power. O Lord, we bless You that the
Your voice has called many to Jesus. Those that are hardened have
felt a softness stealing over their spirits. Those who were careless
have been compelled to sit down and think. Those that were wrapped
up in earthly things have been compelled to think of eternal things
and thinking, have been disturbed and driven to despair, but
afterwards led to You, even to You, dear Savior, who were lifted
high upon the cross that by Your death sinners might live.

But, Lord, we would pray next that Your own people should know
somewhat of the quickening of the Holy Spirit. Lord, we thank You
for the very least life to God, for the feeblest ray of faith and
glimmering of hope. We are glad to see anything of Christ in any
man, but You have come, O Savior, not only that we might have life,
but that we might have it more abundantly, so our prayer is that
there may be abundance of life.

O make Your people strong in spirit, in the power of Your might.
Lord, we find when we walk close with You that we have no desire for
the world. When we get away altogether from the things that are seen
and temporal, and live upon the invisible and eternal, then we will
have angels' food. No, better than that, the food of Christ
Himself, for his flesh is meat indeed and His blood is drink indeed.
Then have we meat to eat that the world does not know. We pray You
raise all our brothers and sisters in Christ into the high and
heavenly frame of mind in which they will be in the world and not
be of it. Whether they have little or much of temporal things, may
they be rich in You and full of joy in the Holy Ghost, and so be
blessed men and women.

We pray for some of Your own people who seem to be doing very little
for You. Lord, have mercy upon those whose strength runs towards the
world and who give but little of their strength to the spread of the
Gospel and the winning of souls. O let none of us fritter away our
existence. May we begin to live since Christ has died. May we
realize that because He died, we died to all the world, and because
He lives, we live in newness of life. Lord, we thank You for that
newness of life.

We praise Your name for a new heaven and a new earth. We bless You
that we now see what we never saw before and hear what we never
heard before. Oh! that we might enter the very secret place of
this inner life. May we have as much grace as can be obtained. May
we become perfect after the manner of Your servant Paul, but still
press forward, seeking still to be more and more conformed to the
image of Christ.

Lord, make us useful. Oh! let no believer live to himself. May we be
trying to bring others to Christ. May our employers, and coworkers,
and neighbors all know where we live, and if they do not understand
the secret of that life, yet may they see the fruit of that life and
may they ask, "What is this?" and inquire their way to Christ that
they may be sanctified too. O Lord, we pray You visit Your Church.
May none of us imagine that we are living aright unless we are
bringing others to the cross. Oh! keep us from worldliness. Keep us
much in prayer. Keep us with the light of God shining on our
forehead. May we be a happy people, not because we are screened from
affliction, but because we are walking in the light of God.

Again, we offer prayer for the many efforts that are scattered abroad
today. May they be good wherever they are. We pray for all churches.
Lord, revive them all. Wherever Christ is preached, may it be proved
that He draws all men unto Him. May the preaching of Christ today be
peculiarly efficacious. Oh! that You would raise up many that would
preach Christ, simply, boldly, and with the Holy Ghost sent down
from heaven. Send us better days. Send us days of refreshing from
the Your presence.

Lord, shake the earth with Your power. Oh! that the lands may hear
Your Word and live. But first convert the Church and then You will
convert the world. Oh! deal with those that depart from the faith
and grieve Your Holy Spirit. Bring them back again to their first
love and may Christ be fully and faithfully preached everywhere to
the glory of His name. Now forgive us every iniquity. Now lift us
beyond the power of every sin. Now lift us to pray and praise. Now
make the home full of sacred power and last of all, come, Lord
Jesus. This is the great wish of our souls. Even so, come quickly,
come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen and Amen.


Prayer Number 41.

To Be Like Christ.

Blessed are You, O God, teach us Your statutes! Because You are the
infinitely blessed One, You can impart blessing, and You are
infinitely willing to do so, and therefore do we approach You with
great confidence, through Jesus Christ Your Son, whom You have made
blessed forevermore.

Oh! hear You the voice of Your servants this day and according to
Your infinite love and wisdom answer You us, according to Your
riches in glory, by Christ Jesus.

First, we would confess before You, Oh God, the sin we have committed,
mourning over it. Touch each one's heart now with tenderness that
everyone of us may lament that You should even have a few things
against us, if they be but few, for in the great love of our blessed
Master Jesus said to His churches, "Nevertheless, I have a few
things against You." Oh Lord if You have so kept us by Your grace
that there have been but a few things against us, yet help us to
mourn them much. Oh, Infinite Love, can we sin against You at all?
How debased is our nature then! Forgive, sweet Savior, forgive sins
against Your love and blood, against Your wounds and death, and give
us Your Spirit, Oh Savior, more fully, that we may live Your life
while we are here among the sons of men, for as You are, even so
also are we in this world, and we wish the parallel to become more
close and perfect every day!

Forgive those who have never felt the guilt of sin, who are living
in it, who are carnally minded, who are therefore dead. O, quicken
by Your divine Spirit. Take away the pleasure which they feel in
sin. Deliver them from being the bond slaves of it. Oh! we know the
sorrow of sometimes being captured by it, but still, we are not yet
slaves. The Holy Spirit, the life of God, in Jesus Christ, has made
us free from the law of sin and death. O, deliver others. Bring them
up out of the horrible pit of sin. Deliver them from the death of
their natures and save them by the Holy Spirit, and apply the
precious blood of Jesus to their hearts and consciences.

And, Lord, hear us who are Your children, in whom the Spirit bears
witness with our spirit, that we are Your children. Hear us while we
bring before You our daily struggles. Blessed be Your name, there
are some sins which You have helped us to overcome and now they are
trodden beneath our feet with many a tear that we ever should have
been in bondage to them. And oh, there are rebellions within our
nature still. We think that we are getting holy and behold we
discover that we are under the power of pride, that we are
self-conceited about ourselves. Lord help us to master pride.

And then when we try to be humble before You, we find ourselves
falling into inaction and apathy. Lord, kill slothfulness within us
and never let us find a pillow in the doctrines of grace for ease
while yet a single sin remains. Besides, great God, the raging lusts
of the flesh will sometimes pounce upon us like wild beasts. Help us
to be very watchful lest by any means we be torn and rent by them.
Oh keep us, we beg You, Lord, for without Your keeping we cannot
keep ourselves.

Alas! we are even sometimes subject to unbelief. If trials come
which we do not expect or if the body grows faint, how liable are we
to begin to doubt the faithful promise and so grieve the Holy
Spirit. Lord, we cannot bear this. We cannot bear this. It is not
enough for us that our garments are clean and that we walk uprightly
before men. We long to walk before You in such a way that there will
be nothing to grieve Your Spirit, nothing to vex the tender love of
our Beloved Jesus Christ. O, come, divine Spirit, and exercise Your
cleansing power upon us according to Your promise, "I will cleanse
Your blood which I have not cleansed, saith the Lord, that dwelleth
in Zion."

Oh that everything might help us towards purity, for we crave after
it. We mind the things of the Spirit and there is groaning within us
to be utterly delivered from the things of the flesh, that we may in
spirit, soul, and body, be a cleansed temple fit for the indwelling
of the Holy One of Israel. Lord help us, we pray You, in our daily
life, to be as Christ. If Jesus was a man of sorrows, may there be
that luster about our sorrow which there was about His in patience
and holy submission to the divine law. If Jesus was a man of
activity, may our activity be like His, for He "went about doing
good." May we seek the good of those around us in all ways and the
glory of our God. We wish that the zeal of Your house would eat us
up, that we should be full of sacred warmth, that our lips were
touched with the live coal from Your alter so that there be a fire
in us perpetually flaming and burning, and ourselves a living
sacrifice unto You oh God.

Bless us, we pray You, as to our example and influence. May it
always be of a pleasant kind. May there be a sweetness and light
about us which all must be obliged to perceive. Not for our honor
would we crave this, but that our light may so shine before men that
they may "see our good works and glorify You Our Father which is in
heaven." Lord grant us this!

We beg You, bless the unconverted among us. Bring them in, dear
Savior, bring them in. Help the living among us to compel them to
come in that Your house may be filled. May something of a sacred
compulsion be used that they may not be left outside to starve in
the highways and hedges but be brought into the Gospel feast.

Lord bless our country at this time. Will You be gracious unto those
who have the helm of affairs that during great difficulty,
they may be wise and gracious directed by your hand. God bless the
president with every mercy and let all that are in authority share
the divine favor. Bless other countries, too, for whom we do most
earnestly pray, especially for our brethren in Christ throughout the
earth, blessing and praising You. We have so many abroad, not only
of our own kin by nationality, but also brothers and sisters in
Christ. Lord bless the Church in the hostile nations. Do not fail to
remember the struggling ones and all the missionaries that are
laboring in the foreign field.

O, Savior, let Your kingdom come. When will this earth be delivered
from the incubus of superstition and of infidelity? Oh, that You
would hear creation's groans and come quickly. Oh, You great
Deliverer, joy of the earth are You, the expected of the tribes of
Israel still. Come, we beg You, Your absent love, Your dear unknown,
You the fairest of ten thousand. Come a second time to earth and to
the sons of men and especially to Your Bride, the Church. Even so,
come quickly, Lord Jesus. Amen.


Prayer Number 42.

Oh For More Grace.

Our Father, You do hear us when we pray. You have provided an
advocate and intercessor in heaven now. We cannot come to You unless
Your Holy Spirit will suggest desire and help us while we plead. We
would ask that the subject which caused such conflict to Paul may be
beyond conflict with us. May we know Jesus Christ and have Him to be
our all in all. We would have the conflict about others, but may we
be past it for ourselves. Jesus is everything to us, more than all
in Him we find. We do accept You, Lord Jesus, to be made unto us
wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. We will not
look out beyond You for anything, for everything is in You. Our sin
is pardoned. Our sinful nature is subdued. We have a perfect
righteousness. We have an immortal life. We have a sure hope. We
have an immovable foundation. Why should we look beyond You? Why
should we look within ourselves, knowing that You shalt be the only
well from which we will draw the living water, the only foundation
upon which we will build. We would thrust out new rootlets this day
and take fresh hold on the blessed soil in which grace has planted
us.

Oh Savior, reveal Yourself anew, teach us a little more, help us to
go a little deeper into the divine mystery. May we grip You and
grasp You. May we suck out of You the nutriment of our spirit. May
we be in You as a branch is in the stem and may we bear fruit from
You. Without You we can do nothing.

Forgive, we pray You, Your servants, any wanderings during the past.
If we have forgotten You, forget not us. If we have acted apart from
You, forgive the act. Blot out our sin. Help us in the future to
live only as we live in You, to speak, and even to think, as in
union with our living Head of the body. Take away from us all life
which is contrary to the life of Christ. Bring us into complete
subjection in Him, until for us to live will be Christ in every
single act of life. May we walk humbly with You oh God in joyful
faith in the finished work of Jesus.

Savior, look on Your beloved ones and give blessings according to
our necessities. We cannot pray a prayer that would comprise all,
but You can, our Great Intercessor, plead for each one and get for
each one of us the blessing wanted. Are we depressed? Give us
stronger faith. Have we become worldly? Pardon this great offense
and lead us more into spiritual things. Have we become joyous, but
have forgotten the source of true Joy? Lord, sweeten and savor that
joy with the sweet perfume of Your own presence. Have we to preach
and do we feel weak? Oh! be our strength. Are we engaged in the
Sunday school and have we seen little success? Lord, teach us how to
teach. Give us our boys and girls to be our spiritual reward. Are we
sickly? Have we those that vex us because they are unholy and
ungodly? This, indeed, is a terrible trial to many. Lord, help them,
both in their personal sickness and in this great spiritual trouble.
Have we dear ones whom we love with all our hearts, who weaken
before our eyes? Lord, have pity upon them and restore them, and
give them patience to bear pain and give us resignation to Your will
in all matters. Whatever the trial of Your servants, make a way of
escape that we may be able to bear it. Our great concern, however,
is to grow in grace and to become like You our Master and Savior
Lord Jesus. We struggle and we struggle, but how small our progress!
Lord, help us in any matter in which we have felt defeated. If we
have been betrayed through want of watchfulness, Lord forgive and
help us another time. If any of Your servants have lost the
brightness of their evidence, give them to come to You Lord Jesus as
sinners if they cannot come as saints. And if through Satan's
temptation any are sorely subject to attacks, so hard they struggle
even to keep their feet, hold them up, and if any have fallen, help
them to say, "Rejoice not against me, O, my enemy; when I fall I
shall arise."

Now look in great mercy upon those who are unconverted. Lord, save
them. Some are quite careless. Lord, they are dead. Come and quicken
them. We cannot see, but You can. Oh! that some of the most obdurate
and hardened might be softened by the touch of Your Spirit this very
day and may others who are not careless, but who are even seeking
after eternal life, but who are going the wrong way to work, may
they be shown their error, may they be led in the way by You, may
they look, and looking, live. We know how many of them are wanting
to be this and that before they take Christ to be all in all. May
they cease their seeking by finding everything in You Christ Jesus.
As You are a prayer-hearing God and a God of pardon, issue many a
pardon from Your heavenly court today, sealed with the Redeemer's
blood, signed with Your name oh God. Oh! today, Lord, do not let men
and women grow old in sin, lest they die in their sins. Save them
with an everlasting salvation.

God bless our country and our president. God bless this city. May
there be no disquietude between the different orders of men --- the
employer and the employed, but may there be a general spirit of
goodwill given to the people of this city, and we ask You to prosper
us.

Remember all people, especially the poor, the homeless, the widows
and the fatherless, and any that are depressed in spirit, whose
depression tends to the failure of reason. The Lord restore them and
such as are dying. Oh Lord, let them not die without hope and may
Your believing people learn to pass away without even tasting the
bitterness of death. May they enter into rest, each one walking in
his own uprightness.

Save this age from its own intellectual pride. Rise up above the
distractions of technology and entertainment. Give back the spirit
of simple faith in Christ, for we desire His glory. "For Yours is
the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, forever and ever. Amen."


Prayer Number 43.

God's Unspeakable Gift.

Oh LORD, many of us feel like the lame man at the Beautiful Gate of
the temple. Come by this way and make the lame ones perfectly sound.
Oh Lord, You can do by Your servants today what You did by them in
the olden times. Work miracles of mercy even upon outer court
worshippers who are too lame to get into the holy place.

But there are many who feel like that man when he was restored. We
would follow You our Restorer, the Prince of Life, into the temple,
leaping and walking and praising God. Lord Jesus, You have gone into
the temple in the highest sense, up to the throne of God. Jesus
climbs and we would follow also, up the steps of the temple one by
one. We would come nearer and nearer to Your throne Oh God.

Oh Lord, You have done such great things for us that we feel the
drawings of Your love as described in Your Word --- "The Lord hath
appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loved thee with an
everlasting love, therefore, with lovingkindness have I drawn thee."

Draw us nearer, Lord, draw us into the inner Sanctuary. Draw us
within the place which once was hidden by the veil which Christ has
rent. Bring us right up to the throne of grace and where we can
behold Your glory Oh God above the Mercy Seat. May we have communion
with You the Most High. Heal all our diseases and forgive us all our
trespasses.

Still, Lord, though healed of a former lameness so that we now have
strength, we need a further touch from You. We are so apt to get
dull and stupid. Come and help us, Lord Jesus. A vision of Your face
will brighten us, but to feel Your Spirit touching us will make us
vigorous. Oh! for the leaping and the walking of the man born lame.
May we today dance with holy joy like David before the Ark of the
Covenant. May a holy exhilaration take possession of every part of
us. May we be glad in You Oh Lord. May our mouth be filled with
laughter and our tongue with singing, "For the Lord hath done great
things for us whereof we are glad."

Today help Your people to put on Christ. May we live as those who
are alive from the dead, for He is the quickening Spirit and may we
feel Him to be so. Is any part of us still dead, Lord, quicken it.
May the life which has taken possession of our heart take possession
of our head. May the brain be active in holy thought. May our entire
being, indeed, respond to the new life Christ has given and may we
live in that newness of life.

We fall on our faces and worship Your Son today. It is such a
wonder that Jesus should have loved us, and He has done such
wonderful things for us and in us that we may still call Him that
unspeakable gift. He is unspeakably precious to our souls. You know
all things, Lord. You know that we love You. May that love bubble up
today like a boiling cauldron. May our hearts overflow and if we
cannot speak what we feel, may that holy silence be eloquent with
the praise of God.

Lord, send Your life throughout the entire Church. Lord, visit Your
Church, restore sound doctrine, restore holy and earnest living.
Take away from professors their apparent love for frivolities, their
attempts to meet the world on its own ground, and give back the old
love to the doctrines of the cross, the doctrines of the Christ, and
once more may free grace and dying love be the music that refreshes
the Church and make her heart exceedingly glad.

Just now when the earth is waking up to life, Lord, wake up dead
hearts and if there are seeds of grace lying dormant in any soul,
may they begin to bud. May the bulb down at the heart send forth its
golden cup and drink in of the light, the life you give Oh God. Oh!
save today. Let your Holy word be fulfilled --- "Your King in the
midst of You is mighty: He will save." Our very heart is speaking
now much more loudly and sweetly than our lips can speak. Lord save
sinners. Great High Priest, have compassion on the ignorant and such
as are out of the way. Great Shepherd of the sheep, gather the lambs
within Your arm. Find out the lost sheep. Throw them on Your
shoulders and bring them home rejoicing.

We ask that everywhere there may be great numbers added to the
Church. You who did bring in five thousand so soon, bring in five
thousand in many and many a place. We read the statistics of Your
Church with great sorrow. How small an increase! Lord, multiply us
with men as with a flock. Increase the people and increase the joy.
Make us to joy before You as the joy of harvest.

Lord, we pray for our country with all our heart and as You
commanded us we pray for those in authority, for the president, for
the Congress and Courts, for all governors and mayors and all those
in authority. We pray also for the poorest and the down-trodden, the
homeless. Lord look upon the poor of this world and make them rich
in faith, and comfort them in heart by the Holy Ghost. The Lord save
this nation. Let Your light and Your truth go forth to the most
distant parts of the earth. "Let the people praise You; Oh God let
all the people, praise You." Give us the times of refreshing. May
we have a visit from Christ by the power of His Spirit and until
Jesus comes again may there be a blessed sunny time of peace and
salvation.

"Your kingdom come, Your will be done, on earth, as it is in
heaven." And do You come Yourself, great King. May our eyes, if it
please You, behold You on earth, but if not, if we fall asleep on
some blessed day, we can say, "I know that my Redeemer lives; and
though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh will
I see God."

Bless every Sunday school teacher, every tract distributor, every
open-air preacher. Bless, we pray You, all Christian doctors and
nurses, deacons and missionaries, workers, and volunteers of the
Mission, Bible readers, and all others who in any way seek to bring
men to faith in Christ. Oh God the Holy Spirit, work mightily, we
pray You. Flood the world with a baptism of Your power and "Let the
whole earth be filled with a knowledge of the Lord as the waters
cover the sea." We ask all in that dear name of Jesus which made
the lame man whole, which is sweet to You Oh God in heaven and dear
to us below; and unto Father, Son, and Holy Ghost be glory, world
without end. Amen.


Prayer Number 44.

The Great Sacrifice.

Oh God our Father, we do remember well when we were called to You,
with many sweet and wooing voices, we were bidden to return. You did
Yourself hang out the lights of mercy that we might know the way
home and Your dear Son Himself came down to seek us. But we wandered
still. It brings the tears to our eyes to think that we should have
been so foolish and so wicked, for we often extinguished the light
within and conscience we tried to harden, and we sinned against light
and knowledge with a high hand against You our God.

You have often brought us very low even to our knees and we cried
for mercy, but we rose to sin again. Blessed was that day when You
did strike the blow of grace --- the effectual blow. Then did You
reveal our true condition and all our perfection was rolled in the
dust. We saw ourselves to be slain by the law, to be lost, ruined,
and undone, and then we rolled to and fro in the tempests of our
thoughts and staggered like drunkards and were at our wits' end ---
then did we cry unto You in our trouble, and blessed be Your name
forever, You did deliver us.

Oh happy day that sealed our pardon with the precious blood of Jesus
accepted by faith. We would recall the memory of that blessed season
by repeating it. We come again now to the cross whereon the Savior
bled. We give another look of faith to Him. We trust we never take
away our eyes off Jesus, but if we have done so, we would look anew.
We would gaze into the body of the Son of God, pierced with nails,
parched with thirst, bleeding, dying, because "It pleased You
Father to bruise Him; You hath put Him to grief."

Lord God, we see in Your crucified Son a sacrifice for sin. We see
how You have made Him to be sin for us that we might be made the
righteousness of You Oh God in Him and we do over again accept Him
to be everything to us. This is the victim by whose blood the
covenant is made through faith. This is that Paschal Lamb by the
sprinkling of whose blood all Israel is secured, for You have said,
"When I see the blood, I will pass over you." This is the blood
which gives us access into that which is within the veil. This is
the blood which now to our souls is drink indeed and we do rejoice
in the joy which this new wine of the covenant hath given unto our
spirits.

We would take afresh the cup of salvation and call upon the name of
the Lord. We would pay our vows now in the midst of all the Lord's
people and in the courts of His house, and this is a part payment of
our vow that we bless the Lord Jesus who hath put away our sin. We
bless Him that He hath redeemed us unto Himself not with corruptible
things as silver and gold, but with His own precious blood and we do
avow ourselves today to be the Lord's.

We are not our own. We are bought with a price. Lord Jesus, renew
Your grasp of us, take us over again, for we do even with greater
eagerness than ever before, surrender ourselves to You, and so "Bind
the sacrifice with cords, even with cords to the horns of the
altar." Oh Lord, we are Your servants and the sons and daughters of
Your handmaid. You have loosed our bonds. The Lord lives, and
blessed be my Rock. Henceforth within that Rock I hide myself. For
Him I live. Lord enable all Your people with sincere hearts, with
undivided hearts, again to give themselves up to Jesus, and do You
set in them anew the marks and tokens of Your possession until every
one of us will say as many of us can say, "From henceforth let no
man trouble me; for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus
Christ."

We bless You, Lord, for that mark to which some of us can look back
with much joy. It is not in our hand, nor in our forehead, nor on
our foot, nor on our heart alone. Our whole body has been buried
with Christ in baptism unto death and now the whole body, soul, and
spirit, by our willing consecration, belong unto Christ henceforth
and forever.

Our Father, there is one prayer which has kept rising to our lip
even while we have been speaking to You. It comes from our heart. It
is, bring others to Yourself. Have You not said, Oh God of Jacob,
"Yet will I gather others unto Him that have not been gathered?"
Have You not given to Your Son the heathen for His inheritance and
the uttermost parts of the earth for His possession? Lord, give Your
Son the reward of His travail. Give Him a part of that reward this
day wherever He is preached. Oh! that some might be moved with the
love of Christ.

Lord, some know not who You are. Convince them of Your deity and
Your power to save. Lord, many of them do not think. They live as if
they were to die and there would be an end of them. Oh divine
Spirit, convince them of judgment to come. Set before each careless
eye that day of terrible pomp when for every idle word that men
will speak they must give an account. Oh divine Spirit, teach
unreasonable men true reason. Teach the obdurate sensitivity. Look
on them, Jesus, just as You did on those of the synagogue, not with
anger, but still being grieved because of the hardness of their
hearts and said --- "Father, forgive them, they know not what they
do," and bring many, many, many this very day to Your dear feet
that were nailed to the cross. Oh! how we long for it. Deny us what
You will, only bring sinners to Yourself.

Lord Jesus, You are physically gone from us. We rejoice in this
fact, for You have taught us that it is expedient for us that You
should go and that the Comforter should be with us, but oh! let us
not miss or take for granted that promised presence of the
Comforter. May He be here to help us in all works of faith and
labors of love, and may we feel that He has come among us and is
dwelling with us because He is convincing the world of sin, of
righteousness, and of judgment to come.

Oh Spirit of God, bring men to accept the great propitiation, to see
their sin washed away in the purple flood whose fount was opened
when the heart of Christ was pierced, and may blood-washed sinners
begin to sing on earth that everlasting anthem which will be sung
by all the redeemed in heaven.

We beg You now, Lord, to look upon all Your people and grant
everyone a blessing. Some are in great trouble. Deliver them, we
pray You. Others may be in great peril, though they have no trouble.
The Lord save His people from the evils and dangers of prosperity.
It may be some of Your own people find it hard to worship because of
worldly cares and responsibilities. May they be able, like Abraham,
when the birds came down upon the sacrifice, to drive them away.

Oh Spirit of God, make us all more holy. Work in us more completely
to conform to the image of Christ. We do long to be as the Lord
Jesus Christ in spirit and temper, and in unselfishness of life.
Give us the character of Christ, we pray You. We crave the
redemption from the power of sin that was purchased with the blood
of Jesus and pray that we may receive it daily. Let the whole
militant Church be blessed. Put power into all faithful ministries.
Convert this country. Save it from abounding sin. Let all the
nations of the earth know the Lord, but especially bless those
nations that speak the name of Jesus, where our same Lord and Christ
is worshipped this day after the same fashion.

Lord bless Your people. Bring the Church to break down all bonds of
nationality, all limits of sects, and may we feel the blessed unity
which is the very glory of the Church. Yes Lord, let the whole earth
be filled with Your glory. Our prayer can never cease until we reach
this point, "Your Kingdom come, Your will be done, on earth as it
is in heaven." Nothing less than this can we ask for. And now hear
us as we pray for the president and all in authority, and ask Your
blessing to rest upon this land, and let Your blessing extend over
all the family of faith. We ask it for Christ's sake. Amen.


